fact that the unemployment rate is going
down is something that of course is
quite surprising.
It feels like a lot of optimism has been
priced in the market, but we do expect a
soft patch later this year.
The story here is not the headline.
The labor market's okay. Their urgency
to cut goes down.
Base case we have them not cutting.
Certainly July is off the table. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, attention shifting from
taxes to trade.
I think we'll have most countries done
by uh July 9th. Yeah. Either a letter or
a deal.
But they but they go into effect on
August 1st. Tariffs go into effect
August 1st, but the president is setting
the rates and the deals right now.
The White House preparing to set tariff
rates in the face of shifting deadlines
as President Donald Trump signs his
major tax and spending bill into law.
The Tesla CEO Elon Musking his bid to
start a new political party, putting
Tesla stock back in a spotlight.
A lot to digest this Monday morning,
especially we as we have this tariff
deadline looming. It really feels like
parallel tracks though, Jonathan. The
president very late last night putting
out a truth social post saying that
there will be deals announced today,
letters, trade and tariff letter sent to
a number of countries by noon today. At
the same time, his own commerce
secretary and the Treasury Secretary
talking about now August 1st. So it
feels like the deadline is shifting and
it always felt like this deadline was a
bit fluid.
So July 9th was the self-imposed 90-day
pause. That's in a couple of days time.
August 1st is when the tariffs kick in
and after Secretary Besson spent over
the weekend a lot of people just assume
there's some space here to negotiate.
Now the president also said just to
confuse things even more the letters
will go out at noon today.
Right. So what this all says to me is
very simply they do not have the deals
done yet because the second a deal seems
like they are close and at the finish
line the president takes to truth social
or hasn't has a press conference in the
oval office like he did with the United
Kingdom like he did just a few days ago
with Vietnam. So they're still working
through a few details. Clearly the
Treasury Secretary is talking about 18
trading partners. We have been saying
for weeks when you speak to the other
side of the table that are negotiating
with this White House, they say if you
are negotiating in good faith and they
feel like you are far enough along, the
White House has told them that they will
give them the breathing room and the
space belong beyond July 9th. July 9th
is Wednesday. So a lot of those trading
partners are going to get more days.
That's the focus coming into a brand new
trading week. The single name focus so
far this morning. one name Tesla in the
pre-market down by more than 6%. One
quote from Elon Musk enough to wipe out
some serious gains on this stock. You
want a new political party? You shall
have it.
Well, what you're seeing right now is
the feud once again back in play between
Elon Musk and the president of the
United States. This is not what
investors or the board of his companies
wanted to see when they saw him leave
the White House and leave Doge. Dan Ies
who we're going to be speaking to says
that exactly very simply must diving
deeper into politics now trying to take
the beltway establishment is exactly the
opposite direction that investors and
shareholders want him to take during
this crucial period for the Tesla story.
More on this stock a little bit later
this morning down hard in the pre-market
futures doing okay on the S&P 500
negative by about a quarter of 1%.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Steve Chevron of Federated as a riskoff
mood returns to markets. Dan Ives of
Wedbush on Elon Musk's new political
party and Andrew Honhorse of city
following a stronger than expected jobs
report. We begin this hour with stocks
falling ahead of President Trump's
Wednesday tariff deadline. Steve Chevron
of Federated writing the following. The
market will get comfortable with the new
levels especially against the background
of much greater certainty progrowth
fiscal policies and monetary easing on
the horizon. Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, welcome to the program,
sir. And I hope you had a fantastic July
4th long weekend. Let's get straight
into this and your expectations for a
couple of days time. What are you
expecting from this White House?
I
think you've got a lastm minute
negotiation push here. I mean, I think
that's what some of the uncertainty is
around. Clearly, you know, having put
pressure on the administration is
looking for that last bit of pressure to
get these deals where they want them to
be. I think that's what some of the
threats are. I I do think though there's
some information around the Vietnam
deal. I think the Wall Street's been
looking for a kind of 10% around the
board rate. Uh Vietnam deal suggests to
me that maybe that number is a little
bit higher. So I think you could see a
little bit of indigestion this week. I
think the market may have to become
comfortable with a number that's north
of 10% as the kind of standard rate. But
again, with energy prices lower, with
the tax bill now behind us, with
earnings estimates stabilized, I I think
the market will be able to digest that
over, you know, the course of a week or
two and and and continue to move higher.
But this week is going to be a little
tricky. I think
Steve, just to sit on trade just a
little bit longer. Difficult, of course,
to guess the number, but I think we can
guess the direction of travel here.
Higher than where we were in January,
maybe lower than where we were after
April 2nd. Can we draw any conclusions
about how companies have responded in
the last several weeks? just get an idea
of who's going to pay these tariffs. Do
they pass them on to the consumer or are
we going to see them take it on margins?
I I I think it's going to be I think
it's a combination of both. I mean, I
think when if you've got an item where
demand is inelastic, you may see some
price some prices pass through. I think
in other cases you might see it eaten in
margin. In some cases, it might be eaten
by the importer. Uh I'm sorry, the
exporter rather than the importer. And
so I I think it really is a combination
of all of all three, John. And and I
think that's the administration's idea
here is that if tariffs are a tax and
roughly half of that is going to be paid
by the exporter either through a
stronger currency or by them eating, you
know, on on the margin on their side
that you're really using that revenue to
fund the extension of the Trump tax
cuts, but only about half of it is paid
by the US kind of tax base.
When do you think it's all three? When
do you think Steve will actually see
clarity on who is actually eating the
tariff because the deadline just keeps
shifting? I
I don't think that's a policy thing,
Amry. I think it really is about the
currency. You know, we've seen the
dollar weaker the first half of this
year. I think a lot of that has to do
with the way that the government
financed itself ahead of the debt
ceiling. You're spending out of the
Treasury general account. You're
flooding the system with dollars, higher
supply of dollars, kind of lower value.
I think now that that's behind us and
that you've passed the one big beautiful
bill, it's going to be very interesting
to see what the dollar does I think over
the next, you know, let's call it a
couple of months. And the higher that
dollar goes, the more it's suggesting
that that it's foreign payers that are
eating the tariff. But we really don't
know that now yet until, you know, we've
gotten past the debt ceiling kind of
issue. So next couple months are going
to be really telling there.
You think that still though the market
will grind higher. How does it
continuously grind higher in the face of
a number of uncertainties?
Well, those uncertainties which, you
know, were kind of holding the market
back earlier in the year have become a
wall of worry, right? There was concern
that you weren't going to get the one
big beautiful bill done. It's done.
There was concern about geopolitics.
We've started to see that settle. There
was concern about energy prices. Those
have come down. There's concern about
tariffs, but again, we know what the
worst case is for tariffs. The worst
case for tariffs was what happened on
liberation day was those levels and
whatever is going to be implemented is
going to be less than that with key
countries likely to get across the
finish line. So look being bearish is
always easier because you can point to
all the things that are you know
potentially negative in front of you or
that are negative today. The reality is
the line moves up and to the right
because businesses adjust and we've got
companies that got through COVID when we
shut down the economy on a dime. I think
we can get past what's essentially a
sales tax. Um, and so I don't think what
you have here is something that's a
long-term destruction of the economy.
It's just it's a tax and companies will
figure it out a little higher.
Well, Steve, let's worry about something
else because there's always something
else to worry about. Let's worry about
the data. Payroll's out on Friday or
rather Thursday going into the long
weekend with the July 4th holiday on
Friday. This is what City had to say
about the numbers. Solid headline,
fragile details. there is a worry about
maybe some cracks forming beneath the
surface and maybe those cracks come to
the surface as we work our way through
summer. Why isn't that something to be
concerned about for you and the team?
Yeah. So, I think what what you see is
that the labor market has slowed. Um I
don't think there's any question about
that. But what you're seeing is not that
there's mass layoffs, you're seeing just
a slowing of hiring, a slowing of churn.
Um, and I think that that's what the
jobs number really suggested on Friday,
that you still have a solid labor
market, although be it a little bit
slower with some cracks in it. And I
think that that's really kind of what
the market has come to internalize with
with the, you know, a series of data
over the last couple of weeks. Now, the
question is how does the Fed respond?
And I think what you've got there on the
Friday number is a number that was
strong enough that you don't need to be
overly concerned about the labor market.
That's the good news. soft enough that
the Fed still does need to be marching
towards a cut. Now, maybe it doesn't
need to be July, but I think it
certainly needs to be or December
September certainly needs to be in the
discussion and that's something that
we've talked about over the last several
weeks. And so, I think it was a number
that was kind of I want to say
Goldilocks, but it was a number that was
strong enough to give you confidence
about the economy, but weak enough to
suggest that the Fed is still in play. I
think the market is is comfortable with
that. Steve, that slowdown that we've
started to see in the underlying data in
the labor market, for instance, do you
expect to see any of that in corporate
earnings and the outlook that we might
get from companies through the next
week? Down to rail lines this week, the
likes of JP Morgan kicking off bank
earnings next week. What's going to be
the outlook from them?
Well, I think it's going to be industry
dependent. I mean, I think look, credit
looks good still. I think the labor
market looks broadly okay. I think the
banks are going to be in good shape. I
think you could see net interest margins
and net interest income a little bit
better than expected. And I think
ultimately what what what could be the
surprise on the earnings side, I don't
know if it's this quarter, but it's
either this quarter or next, is that now
in the face of greater tax certainty
with greater tariff certainty likely to
come at some point, but hopefully over
the next month, um I think you could see
earnings estimates probably next quarter
and into next year actually start to
rise. I think you can get into a beat
and rise scenario because the the max
uncertainty faced by corporates was
really the last couple of quarters and
that is is is kind of waning. I think
you're going to see companies get
through this quarter but as you get into
the third quarter and they're starting
to project earnings for next year I
think you're going to see a kind of beat
and raise scenario that is the next leg
of the markets driving higher. Steve,
just on that point, are your confidence
levels on that story higher for certain
sectors versus the others, or is this
just an index level story you see
improving in the months ahead?
I think it's going to be better for for
cyclical sectors. I think it's certainly
going to be better for sectors that are
domestically focused. I think you're
going to see smaller companies have more
of an upside there than you would some
of the larger companies. Um,
particularly because those tax rates and
some of the tax policies will really
matter more for them, as does
deregulation. Um I think maybe some of
the defensive sectors have gotten a
little bit expensive in the first part
of this year. You've seen them
underperform a bit as cyclicals and
growth and small caps have taken over.
So I I think you will see it at at the
index level because I think that's
enough of the market to drive the index
level. Uh but I do think there are
winners and losers here. Um, and I think
the bigger winners are those parts of
the market that are tied to the economy,
staying stable, getting a little
stronger, those that are a little tax
sensitive, and those that are more
domestically focused.
Hey Steve, appreciate the update as
always. Steve Chevron of Federation.
Still constructive and bullish this
equity market. Equity futures recovering
somewhat. Still down by a quarter of 1%
as we ease our way into a quieter
trading week. This week we'll get FOMC
minutes on Wednesday, the same day we
see that self-imposed deadline expire,
the 90-day pause on tariffs. Next week,
things really pick up. Bank earnings and
CPI, look out for that a week tomorrow.
Equity futures recover just a little bit
then in the last 10 minutes or so. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
Anard. Hey yara.
Good morning, John. We begin with the
deadly flooding in Texas. rescues.
Rescuers there are still searching for
survivors after catastrophic events over
the weekend. The flooding killed more
than 80 people, including many children
attending youth camps. It's feared the
casualty count will climb with more
heavy rain forecasts in the coming days.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration is
preparing to send tariff letters to
dozens of countries with its 90-day
tariffs set to expire this Wednesday.
Speaking alongside Commerce Secretary
Howard Lutnik, as you can see there,
President Trump said most nations will
have a deal or letter by then. Letic
said the new tariff rates will go into
effect on August 1st. And Elon Musk says
he has formed a new America party after
President Trump signed into law his tax
cut and spending bill that the former
first buddy repeatedly denounced. Musk
made the announcement on e in a post on
X after 65% of respondents to a poll
backed the idea. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara later
on this hour. That stock Tesla down by
6.3%
in the pre-market. Up next on the
program, Trump giving final notice.
Sending letters out on Monday having to
do with the trade deals. Uh could be 12,
maybe 15. I think we'll have most
countries done by July 9th. Yeah.
Either a letter or a deal.
July 9th just two days away. Looking
ahead, Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy
joins us next live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Tesla, the one to watch in the
pre-market. The name is down by more
than 6% this morning. Plenty of reaction
to this. Stan Ives of Wedbush saying
very simply must diving deeper into
politics is exactly the opposite
direction that investors and
shareholders want him to take. Dan Ives
is going to join us in about 15 minutes
time. That's a single name story in the
pre-market. More broadly, equity futures
doing okay. Eg futures negative by only
a quarter of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ
this morning. Negative by point4. Under
surveillance this morning, Trump giving
final notice.
sending letters out on Monday having to
do with the trade deals. Uh could be 12,
maybe 15. Some will go out on Tuesday
and Wednesday and it'll uh and we've
we've made deals also. So, we're going
to have a combination of letters and
some deals have been made. I think we'll
have most countries done by uh July 9th.
Either a letter or a deal.
So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump saying the US
will send letters to trade partners
starting at noon today as his pause on
higher tariffs is set to expire on
Wednesday. Joining us now from the
nation's capital is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Tyler, a lot of people waking
up in this market this morning with one
question after all the comments over the
weekend. Just what is the actual
deadline?
Yeah. Hey John, good morning. Well, the
administration has signaled that perhaps
there's some leeway here in terms of a
perhaps 3-W weekek extension.
Administration officials have said that
they're going to send out the letters in
the coming days, but the levies aren't
going to go into effect until August
1st. And we heard from the Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant in an interview
over the weekend saying that the
administration's playbook is what he
called maximum pressure. That they're
hoping by sending these letters that
will light a fire under the trading
partners to essentially put their best
offer on the table. Now, President Trump
said that these letters are going out to
12 to 15 of our trading partners. We
know the White House was negotiating
over the holiday weekend with officials
from economies that have long been
prioritized, including South Korea,
Japan, India, the European Union. We
should also probably note that officials
from Vietnam were here in Washington.
Even though we've already gotten an
announcement of a framework agreement,
it's clear that things are fluid and
they're still ironing out the details. I
will also add that the Treasury
Secretary said that at the end of the
day, they're likely to send a hundred
letters or so because that will include
some of those smaller countries that
don't do as much trade with the US and
are going to face probably that 10%
baseline tariff. But I bring it up
because it probably previews a little
bit of the messaging that we're going to
hear out at the White House in the
coming days with the Treasury Secretary
saying that these would uh uh basically
amount to the so-called deals even
though doesn't appear a lot of
negotiating was done because John, these
are the rates they're going to have to
pay if they want to do business with the
US.
Tyler, do you have a sense of the
pecking order right now? Who actually is
going to get a deal by the 9th? that is
a framework outlined like we saw
potentially that the US did with the
United Kingdom.
Well, it's actually amory been really
interesting to see how some of these
economies that have been prioritized
those economies in Asia that are
geographically close to China have sort
of been shifting in terms of the order.
Take Japan for example with President
Trump has recently ramped up his threats
against uh because of some of the
sticking points in the negotiations
there particularly when it comes to the
sector specific tariffs related to
autos. We're seeing sort of the same me
messaging when it comes to India. Of
course, President Trump ramped up his uh
comments and his threats against any
nations he says are aligning with
anti-American policies of BRICS
countries after a summit of those
nations over the weekend. But India has
also said that they're prepared to
launch retalatory tariffs, something
that the administration doesn't want to
see and likely isn't liking the sound of
that, particularly when it does come to
also negotiating those auto tariffs. So,
that's been a really interesting
dynamic. These are the countries that we
were expecting agreements, but it is
clear that there's still a lot of issues
that they need to work out.
Tatana Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Down in Washington DC and
Marie, still trying to figure out who's
at the front of the line here and who's
at the back. This is the latest from
Europe this morning from the EU
Commission. The president and von
Delean, the EU Commission President
spoke by phone over the weekend.
Yep. The EU is still trying to work
towards this Wednesday deadline. They
want to get a framework in place when it
comes to the agreement. they don't want
to be lingering uh when it comes to the
the line of who's in the front of the
queue. What's so interesting is that the
European Union seemed to be on the back
foot with this administration. But the
last 3 weeks or so, it really changed in
terms of the outreach and what they were
willing to agree to. Remember, it was
just two weeks ago that they said if
there was a 10% across the line base
when it comes to tariffs, there was
going to be reciprocity from Brussels on
Washington. And then all of a sudden
that disappeared. That evaporated. and
now they seem to be willing to be able
to take more not have as many
concessions.
This from the commission just moments
ago. The EU still working towards the
July 9th deadline for a trade deal with
the United States, seeing progress in
talks towards that trade deal. Joining
us now to extend the conversation, Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy. Terry, good
morning. Stocks at all-time highs. We've
passed the one big beautiful bill. Does
that embolden the president to go hard
this week?
Uh well, I think it uh it puts more
pressure on the president to uh to get
some clarity here, frankly, and the
president continues to uh uh it's not my
opinion. The president continues to uh
to invite that by saying things like uh
you know, we're going to have letters or
deals. Uh so, you know, you know, I
think we all agree here from our
conversation this morning that uh what
you're going to end up with is is not
quite that. You're going to get
frameworks of deals. You're going to get
aspirational deals. You're going to get
a variety of of positive movement which
will be markets positive and you're also
going to get some clarity on the on the
letters on the other side. So, I mean
all this is generally speaking markets
positive, but it'll still be a bit of a
muddle.
It does feel like a muddle because if
you're getting a letter, you're not
getting a deal. I thought the whole
point of Trump doing this maximalist
approach was to get good deals at the
end of the day. Why don't they just kick
the deadline down the road even more?
Uh well, you know, they are to a a bit
and you know, I don't see the the the
deal uh delays to or the delays on
tariffs August 1st as a uh as yet
another delay. I see it more as you
know, here's here's three weeks for
those of you who haven't taken us
seriously to take us seriously and you
know, see if we can't kickstart
something. Uh but uh generally speaking
uh you know the the lesson markets will
learn is that the president's on track
to uh to put a lot of this stuff to bed
over the next weeks and months and
that's uh that's probably good news.
Steve Shiverone brought up a really good
point. Everyone was thinking there was
going to be a 10% baseline tariff. But
then when Trump came out with the
Vietnam deal which was 20% and then for
trans shipping 40% that 10% quickly
evaporated and people are starting to
think maybe the rates are going to be
higher. Can we see a lot of these
countries get rates that are higher than
10%.
Uh well, first Steve's the best and
secondly the uh the how I would put that
is uh you know you look at the specifics
of uh Vietnam which is among other
things a a prime uh use
is used by China for trans shshipment
and so I think generally speaking you
where there are other countries that
have similar characteristics of Vietnam
in terms of trans shshipment you're
going to see that kind of backfilling
and we're not not What does the market
want to see in terms of the countries
that the administration is prioritizing
and could try to get a framework by this
Wednesday?
Well, I think markets want to see any
progress at all generally, I would offer
that the the country I would look at is
India. And the reason why I would look
at India is because not only is it a is
it a a major world economy, not only is
it a country that the United States,
both the United States and India have
prioritized in terms of getting a deal,
uh but we're also just coming off this
uh this bricks conference that involved
India. So the uh the the the the market
or excuse me the political view uh and
policy view of getting India so clearly
side with the United States in terms of
a trade deal uh would send a pretty
powerful message to lots of economies in
the world about what the United States
is willing to do to uh increase
interdependence.
Terry, just one more beat. Let's take it
away from trade. Let's talk about
domestic politics. the New America
Party. Congress, as you know, is
operating with really thin margins down
in Washington DC. If Elon Musk really
pursues this, could this upset the
midterms?
Uh, there's potential for that right
now, but it's really really far away.
Um, you know, we're looking at 18 months
out, so anything anybody says today
isn't uh I think doesn't have much
validity uh for the for the result. I
will say this about Musk. You know,
there's five five things Musk needs to
do to pro to provide a credible
alternative. First, he's got money
certainly. Secondly, uh you know, he's
he has to have a credible brand and you
know, he's been now he's torched himself
with the most uh engaged political
people on both the left and the right.
So, I think the brand is kind of
torched. Uh thirdly, you got to have
some trust in in the project and well,
you know, probably not if your brand's
bad. Uh fourthly, you got to have a plan
and there isn't any. And fifth, you have
to show that in the past you've had some
results and he didn't have any with
Doge. So I'm I'm thinking it's a kind of
a marginal revenge project.
Terry Haynes of Pangier. Appreciate your
opinion, sir. Thank you. It's certainly
hitting the stock so far this morning in
the pre-market. Up next on the program,
Dan Ies of Wedbush on Elon Musk new
America Party. Plus Yhira Arland with
your morning movers and the impact on
shares of Tesla. We're down by 6.5%.
From New York, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
two-day winning streak going into the
long weekend on the S&P 500. Record
highs coming into a brand new trading
week. It's a twoweek winning streak on
the S&P equity futures this morning.
Negative by just a quarter of 1% on the
S&P staring down a series of deadlines.
Is it July 9th, August 1? We'll debate
that throughout this morning with 3
hours until you cash open. Let's get to
your morning movers with Yahara Arnard.
Hey yhara.
Hi John. Now we start with our big mover
of the day and that is Tesla down now
6.7%
after Elon Musk launched his new
political party delving deeper into
politics and drawing fire from President
Trump with two things investors and your
next guest Mr. Ives obviously do not
want to see at a time when Tesla sales
are falling worldwide. And next up we
turn some to some M&A news. We have WNS
here. France's Capge Gemini is buying
this USlisted company and as a result
shares are soaring 13% and this is
really an AI play by Capgeemini which is
an IT services firm. It wants to be able
to provide its clients with Aentic AI
which we all know can make decisions on
its own and instead of developing that
type of technology on its own, it's
going out and buying a company that can
already do that. And we end with Geog
Group and Core Civic. If you are
unfamiliar with these names, these are
the two largest operators of immigrant
detention centers in the US. Geog Group
is up seven and a half percent. Core
Civic up 2.4 after President Trump
signed his massive tax and spending bill
into law which triples federal funding
for detention centers as part of his
broader crackdown on immigration. So
these are two clear winners from that.
John
Yhira, thank you. More from Yhira later
on this hour on a race down this
morning. President Donald Trump
threatening an additional 10% tariff on
any country aligning themselves with the
quote anti-American policies of bricks.
This coming as the US prepares to send
out tariff letters to dozens of trading
partners.
This is why Terry Haynes is perfectly
right when he says India is going to be
really important because this is an ally
of the United States. Modi made this
trip very early on in the Trump
administration just after he was
inaugurated to get ahead of it. He knew
the tariffs were coming down the
pipeline. India is now talking tough
saying potentially they could retaliate
and they are part of bricks and the
president is saying if you're part of
bricks then you're going to get an even
extra penalty when it comes to these
tariffs and trade deadlines.
So does China get an extra 10%.
Well with China it's interesting because
we still don't have the details of the
framework the administration continues
to talk about when it comes to the
Geneva and London talks. I was there at
the London talks. Where is the language?
We do not have the deal that they've put
out. We know it's about rare earths. We
know it's about export controls, but we
don't actually have the final framework.
And what it feels like with China is
people are saying this is a deal. This
really isn't a deal. They both sides
knew that they had to deescalate from
where they were. Is it a grand bargain
deal? Where's the purchasing agreement?
Where's Tik Tok? There's a number of
questions when it comes to China and
Washington that still linger.
The president looked to make an example
out of China just a few months ago. I
wonder this time around who will be made
the example of. It's not going to be
Europe based on some of the
conversations we've heard over the past
few weeks or so. Will it be Japan based
on the direction of travel over the past
few days?
Isn't it so interesting that everyone
said that India and Japan were top of
the list, Europe was bottom of the
barrel, and now we are getting ever so
close to July 9th and it looks like the
European Union is pushing all they can
to try to get this deal over the finish
line. The Treasury Secretary over the
weekend was talking about the fact that
it wasn't just Ursula. The president has
had some frequent phone calls. Now, we
know that they just had one yesterday,
but a number of countries, heads of
state reaching out to the president
saying, "We want to make sure we get a a
framework and an agreement." When it
comes to Japan, they're dealing with a
lot of domestic politics, especially
when it comes to the auto sector. And
for Trump, that seems like that's a red
line.
July 9th, two days away. I want to turn
to the energy market. OPEC plus agreeing
to a bigger than expected production
increase of 548,000 barrels a day next
month. The move putting the group on
track to unwind output cuts a year
earlier than planned. So economically,
OPEC might be looking at this and
saying, "We're going into summer peak
demand. The market could absorb all of
this and we're going to go after market
share." At the same time, they could be
scoring political points with this
administration who continuously talks
about the fact that they want to see
lower energy costs. The issue President
Trump is going to have, of course, is
what does this mean for US domestic
producers that are saying at these
prices, we are not going to drill baby
drill anymore. Crude actually a little
firmer this morning up by 3/4 of 1%.
Brent crude at the moment 68.881 WTI
6713.
Let's turn to Tesla. The CEO Elon Musk
saying he has formed a new political
party called the America Party.
President Trump slamming the move.
It's always been a two-party system and
I think starting a third party just adds
to confusion. It really seems to have
been developed for two parties. Third
parties have never worked. so he can
have fun with it, but uh I think it's
ridiculous.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Craig
Trudell. Craig, the president thinks
it's ridiculous. I'm sure some
shareholders do too with this move in
the pre-market. Before we get into the
politics, let's just talk about the
company. Craig, what's the condition,
the state of operations currently?
Not good. Uh and we got a fresh
indication of of just how poorly the
company is doing uh last week when they
reported another 13% decline in
quarterly sales. So, you know, the the
vehicle uh deliveries reported for the
first quarter, there was, you know, some
uh question as to just how much of this
had to do with, you know, Musk and his
politicking and just how much it had to
do with the Model Y changeover. That's
their most important vehicle. And they
did have, you know, all of their
factories go down for some time in the
first quarter. By the time you got to
the second quarter, you had that fresh
product, uh, you know, sort of, you
know, that arrow in the quiver. And yet
Musk uh you know also was was you know
giving investors this this notion that
you know I'm going to turn back to the
business now that uh now that I'm done
with Doge. He has not uh you know done
that uh you know as we've seen on a sort
of day-to-day basis. Uh he he's you know
continues to kick things up in in
Washington and now is has made himself
not only uh an opponent of the Democrats
but an opponent for the GOP and and for
President Trump. Craig, when you look at
the data right now for car sales, not
just in Europe, but around the world, do
you see a brand issue that's unique to
Tesla or do you see an industry problem
that others have too?
It's a really important question and and
one that is, you know, couldn't be
clearer where, you know, here in Europe,
uh, you you are seeing consistently
Tesla, uh, being, you know, down month
after month and industry-wide EV sales
are actually quite strong. And it's been
a bit surprising because early this year
we had, you know, the industry uh
lobbying furiously for uh relaxing CO2
regulations, right? Uh there was this
real concern that uh the, you know, the
sort of incumbents, the established car
makers weren't going to be able to get
their emissions down fast enough.
Instead, we're seeing, you know,
companies like Volkswagen have a bit of
a sort of pickup in electric vehicle
sales while Tesla is really taking it on
the nose. And so this is not a a case of
of you know the industry more broadly
having uh you know problems with EV
sales. You know I I would also point to
GM just this past quarter in the US uh
more than doubled its its EV sales. And
so this is an issue of of Tesla clearly
having uh problems with you know winning
over car buyers and people looking to
alternatives uh you know perhaps uh you
know for for uh the reason of of Musk
more so than anything else.
Craig appreciate your time. Craig Trav
there of Bloomberg. The stock is lower
by a little more than 6% in the
pre-market. Here's the take from Dan
Ives of Wedbush writing the following.
Mus diving deeper into politics is
exactly the opposite direction. that
Tesla investors and shareholders want
him to take. Dan joins us around the
table. Dan, good morning.
Great to be here.
How much of a problem is this?
It's a huge problem. I mean, look, it's
what we've been talking about, you know,
here on the show, you know, for months
that you went from Trump administration,
Doge, BFFs.
Obviously, there was a huge moment. You
had a step back from politics and that's
exactly what investors want to see. And
now you poked the bear in terms of Trump
and now you're forming a political
party. So the point is I believe you've
now hit a point. I think the board's
going to have to get involved because
this is now over. I think there's a line
in the sand that he's now starting to
cross. And that's the frustration. As
someone that's a huge supporter of
Tesla, autonomous, the golden age ahead,
you cannot kind of go down this path and
I think that's why the stocks react.
Let's unpack that board involvement.
Describe what that might look like.
Look, I wouldn't say it's necessarily an
ultimatum, but you know, you cannot keep
going down this path where you know to
start a political party ahead of the
midterms. I mean, the amount of work
time and also you alienate potentially
whether it's Republican party, whether
it's Trump. So now Trump goes from
obviously huge supporter to is that sort
of an enemy or blockade and I think
that's why the stocks reacting the way
it is because the last thing you want to
see at this point autonomous regulatory
that now Musk goes from front seat in
the White House to ultimately you become
more of a foe.
When you say ultimatum you mean the
board saying to him if you continue this
behavior you can no longer be CEO. Look,
I think the board's gonna there it's a
tricky path, right, for the board and
this is not a board that necessarily has
had such a, you know, a huge backbone
when it comes to Musk, but I do think
look investors there's exhaustion.
Do you want to see a new CEO?
Look, I want Musk to stay CEO as Tesla
because in my view Musk is Tesla, Tesla
is Musk, the biggest asset of Tesla. But
this political journey that he continues
to go through, I think it just comes
down to investors have hit a point where
they want him focused on Tesla and AI
and every time that happens, he just
continues to go further and further into
the political theater.
He might not be just burning bridges in
the beltway. I want to read you this
quote from the Wall Street Journal
reporting overnight. Because of the must
Trump feud, Beijing no longer views the
Tesla CEO as a geopolitical asset and
will shy away from publicly courting
him. Is he going to have problems
outside of the United States as well
because of his political involvement in
the United States?
Look, it goes back to like if you just
take a step back here, it's like let's
try in a way to almost alienate every
aspect of the ecosystem, right? In terms
of the core buyer to now maybe even
Republicans to what you're seeing in
China. Look, China, that's the hearts
and lungs of Tesla. I continue to
believe Musk is an asset there and it
does we'll play that sort of you know
nice in the sandbox but it does show you
become an an enemy or a foe to Trump
what does that do in the political and
obviously the geopolitical and I think
that's part look that's that's part of
the you know the issue here is that you
start to go into a quicksand situation
where I think in the view of investors
there's really no upside side and you
can say okay if you get midterms and you
have some success and he has political
power but that's independents have never
had really success in the US but it's
massive risk that's why the stock's
selling off the way it is
the analyst community is not exactly
bulled up on this stock it's actually
very divided if you take the 12-month
consensus price target the average is
about 298 right now and that's below
where we closed on Thursday how well
understood are these risks as they
manifest and evolve over the weekend
well I think the risk Now they continue
to expand and I think that's part of the
issue is that okay for here it is you go
back to a few weeks ago robo tax the
autonomous you know Musk 100% committed
now it's like hey over the weekend while
eating a hot dog and doing a July 4th
barbecue hey let's let's start a
political party yeah it's a good idea
yeah we're going to do that so that's as
an investor it's the last thing you and
I heard over the weekend the last thing
you want to see is him going down this
path but I think the bigger worry is as
he goes further and further down the
path from from a Tesla perspective. Does
that maybe add risk in terms of Trump
becoming more of a blockade rather
around autonomous and around some of the
Just describe what that means? What do
you mean by that? What could he do?
A big thing is around the federal road
map in terms of autonomous. I mean now
this is a key few years ahead for Tesla
going not just from Austin but 25 cities
over the next year. If you start to put
more blockades in terms of things that
they need to meet in order to get on the
road, if instead of more of a green
light, it's a little more of a yellow
red light. That's the worry. That's what
the stock selling off. It's the fear
that over the next 6, 12, 18 months,
Trump starts to put little blockades in
that.
But at the end of the day, the president
is looking out for America's interest.
If he just does that, it might hurt Elon
Musk, but also might hurt the United
States when it comes to competition with
China.
And that's why we've said the biggest
asset when it comes to autonomous is
Tesla. Cuz when you think of LEMOS,
they're not going to scale at any level
relative to Tesla. So when you're
competing with China, Tesla and Musk is
an asset, no different than Jensen.
That's why look the hope is at one point
is there some sort of meeting between
Musk Trump can they sort of get to some
resolution the problem is every week it
gets further and further and this is not
what you want to see just think about in
the context of every other tech company
from Nadella from Jensen from open AI
from Oracle heading all down the AI path
you don't want to see must now going
down the political path
how much time does he have you got a
price target of 500 in a pre-market
right now We're at 294. How much time
does he have to back away from this?
I mean, I think you basically have what
I view as kind of like 90 days, 3
months. I mean, I think there's a 90day
sort of I could see like some sort of
ultimatum where if he continues to go
down the path, no different than how we
view with Doge and Trump where he
basically on that conference call had to
back off. This is this is a I wouldn't
necessarily say a moment of truth, but
this is a time now for Musk. He needs to
choose and you can't keep having these
one step forward, two steps back, one
step forward, two steps back. And that's
why the exhaustion is starting to play
out in Tesla stock.
Dan of Wbush. Dan, it's good to see you,
sir.
Certainly exhausted by a lot of this.
The stock is down by close to 7% in the
pre-market with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yhira. Hey, Yhierra.
Hi, John. We start with the latest out
of Texas. At least 80 people have died
and dozens more are still missing
following Friday morning's flash floods.
Water levels on the Guadalupe River rose
by 26 feet in just 45 minutes. Officials
warned the casualty count will climb
with more rain in the forecast.
Meanwhile, President Trump is planning
to restrict shipments of AI chips to
Malaysia and Thailand. sources telling
us here at Bloomberg the move is part of
an effort to crack down on suspected
semiconductor smuggling into China. The
regulation would mark the first formal
step in President Trump's overhaul of
former President Biden's approach to AI.
Meanwhile, here's the latest on Tik Tok.
President Trump says the US will discuss
a deal with China today or tomorrow, and
he says they already pretty much have a
deal. Those comments coming as the
information also reported that Tik Tok
is building a new version of its app for
US users ahead of a planned sale to a
group of investors. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in the next hour. Up next on
the program, solid headline, fragile
details. The story here is not the
headline. The market reaction is trading
off of the headline, but I think the
story here is much more about private
payrolls. This is a slowdown. Up next on
the program, the view from Andrew
Honhorse of City and why he thinks this
Fed is going to be cutting rates before
you know it. Live from New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
record highs going into the long
weekend. Just coming off those levels as
we start a new trading week. Equity
futures this morning down by about a
quarter of 1% negative by 4/10en of 1%
on the NASDAQ 100. Under surveillance
this morning, solid headline, fragile
details. The story here is not the
headline. The market reaction is trading
off of the headline, but I think the
story here is much more about private
payrolls. This is a slowdown and a
little bit disappointment on the private
payroll side. The broader story here is
the slowing in the in the payrolls that
we've seen for some time. I think it's
actually confirmed by this report.
Here's the latest this morning. The jobs
report exceeding expectations, but
private payrolls delivering its smallest
increase since October. Andrew Honhorse
of City writing private payroll growth
was soft and highly concentrated in
health care, suggesting hiring continues
to cool. Andrew joins us now for more.
Andrew, good morning.
Good morning.
That was your headline going into the
weekend. Solid headline, fragile
details. How misleading do you think
that headline number actually was?
Yeah, I I think it shows a lot more
strength than the headline that we're
than what we're actually seeing in the
details that hiring like you were
saying, largely government hiring. It
looks like there was a quirk of the
seasonal adjustment there that just
boosted the overall number. And then you
look at the private payrolls and priv
private payrolls 74,000. That that's an
okay number for private payrolls. not a
strong number but really concentrated in
healthcare and you can't drive an
economy with just one sector. So yeah,
fragile details.
These are all valid points yet the
market priced out cuts didn't price them
in. Why do you think that was? I
I I think the market reaction actually
makes sense. We were pricing some
probability of a cut in July and this
headline number is going to be good
enough that that's going to keep the Fed
on hold again in the meeting at at the
meeting this month. it. Again, it's not
that there's, you know, clear evidence
here that the labor market is picking
up. It looks more like it's slowing
down. But is anything falling off the
cliff? Does the Fed need to act
urgently? Probably not after this
report.
It doesn't feel like things are falling
off the cliff, but Torstston put out a
note about how the war notices are going
up when it comes to the legality of
having to be told that you're going to
be laid off in the next 60 days. When do
you think we will see that unemployment
rate really start to rise?
I think we should see it over the next
few months. And that's interesting
because that's what the Federal Open
Market Committee is going to be watching
uh over the next few months as they go
into the September FOMC meeting. It's
not just the warn notices. I think to me
the most convincing data point is
continuing jobless claims. These are
jobless claims that people are filing
week after week. That should be
basically a measure of unemployment and
those are trending higher. So, you put
that together with the war notices, what
we're seeing in some of the survey data,
it's all pointing to a higher
unemployment rate, and that's why it was
quite surprising to see the unemployment
rate move lower in last week's jobs
report. But in the July report, in the
August report, I think we'll see that
upward travel and unemployment.
How has the president's immigration
policies affected what's going on right
now in the labor market?
That's part of the reason that there's
so much emphasis and concentration on
the unemployment rate. We really don't
know what the so-called break even level
of payrolls growth is. So depending on
immigration flows, you might be able to
run 200,000 jobs per month and have the
unemployment rate not move higher, not
move lower. Uh right now we think that
that that break even is maybe closer to
100,000 jobs per month. Uh you basically
need fewer workers join getting jobs to
keep the unemployment rate from moving
higher. But we don't know. We don't
know. The Fed doesn't know. And that's
why we're just watching the unemployment
rate.
We're told repeatedly that college grads
are having a terrible time. Do we have
to have a bigger conversation about what
AI is doing to hiring and what you've
described as a low churn dynamic grip in
this labor market and not just over the
last several months but for quite a
while now?
I think there are two things that are
going on there. I think that AI story
could be part of this now. You would
think that AI would maybe affect lower
skill jobs first maybe not as impactful
for the new college grads. Um but
probably having some impact probably a
reason that that firms are hiring a
little bit less or becoming more
productive using technology. But the the
bigger overall story is just a weakness
that we're seeing in hiring throughout
the economy. And I think that that's
bigger than AI. That's broader than AI.
This is firms that are just trying to
keep cost down generally speaking.
So here's the constructive view. Some
people watching this morning might say
this is backward-looking. The first half
of 25 was full of uncertainty. The
second half will be full of clarity on
taxes already and next on trade. And
what you might see are those two issues
become a tailwind through the next six
months or so. Why would you push back
against that? Well, on on the tax issue,
I'm not sure that we're going to get a
big stimulus out of the the bill that
just passed. This is keeping a lot of
tax cuts there that were already there.
That means that you don't have a fiscal
cliff, but we're not adding a lot of new
fiscal stimulus to the equation. So, I'm
I'm not sure on that one. Um, and in in
in terms of clarity on trade, well,
we're sitting here talking about letters
that are going to go out. Are we going
to find something out July 9th? Are we
going to find something out August 1st?
Um, I think we still have some
uncertainty there. But, but again, this
slowdown in hiring happened before we
heard about tariffs. This happened
before this administration. This is not
about politics. It's not about the
political cycle. This is about the
natural business cycle in the economy.
We hear a lot that right now in the
labor market, it's just stasis,
basically frozen. Not a ton of hiring,
not a ton of firing. But could trade and
tariffs, if it gets too cumbersome for
corporate America, mean there's going to
be layoffs? Well, if you have a higher
cost structure and that's being driven
by anything could be tariffs, it could
be higher commodity prices, whatever is
driving higher cost for you, you start
to look for ways that you can reduce
costs in other places. And one way of
reducing costs, actually, one of the
easiest ways of reducing cost is just
hire fewer people, right? You know,
moving to layoffs, that's a bigger
decision. We haven't seen that happen in
the economy. That's part of why the
labor market has been so resilient. But,
yeah, just cutting back on hiring. And I
I think that's part of what we've seen
firms doing. And remember, higher
interest rates are part of that also,
right? That's where the Fed comes into
this. If you're paying a higher interest
cost, uh, one way that you can offset
that is by paying less in labor cost by
hiring less.
First cut September.
First cut September. It does
increasingly look like that's where the
committee is headed. Powell's made these
statements about watching the data over
the summer. And it's not just about the
labor market. Labor market is what would
give them urgency to cut. It's also
about inflation. Inflation has really
slowed, I think, a lot more than a lot
of Fed officials thought that it would.
That's going to give them a lot of
confidence.
We might know who the next Fed chair is
by September. potentially. That's right.
The president is excited to maybe
announce someone, although I think it
will take a little bit of time. I still
go back to what Besson said, which was
interviews will start in the fall.
Andrew Henhorse of City. Andrew, good to
see you. Looking for that first interest
rate cut in September, believing that
the headline number that looks solid
going into the long weekend was somewhat
misleading and the details beneath the
surface are looking pretty fragile.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 not
fragile this morning, just a little bit
softer. Up next on the program, Ben
Ladler of Pedesco, Henred Tra of Vader
Partners, the former Trump White House
trade official Kate Kucawitz, and Mike
Pal of Black Rockck. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance is just around
the corner.
[Music]
There's still some uncertainty around
tariffs that has to be reconciling.
I think the president wants higher
tariffs because he believes in higher
tariffs.
If you think that the endgame we're
going to have some tariff on the rest of
the world
over the next several weeks, we'll find
out in Q2 how did companies actually
respond to higher tariffs.
As long as tariffs are transitory, we're
in a good place for the Fed to cut in a
couple of months from now. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P just pulling back
from all-time highs on the S&P 500, down
by a quarter of 1%, down by 4/10en of 1%
on the NASDAQ 100. As we look ahead to
this this week, just one big important
date, the self-imposed deadline of July
9th for trade deals. Now, the big
question so far this morning is whether
that self-imposed deadline is still
actually a deadline and whether the new
one is early August.
It looks very fluid, and I think it
depends on who in the administration you
ask. The president last night put out a
truth post saying that at noon there's
going to be a number of letters being
delivered that sets new tariff rates as
opposed to the rates that were set April
2nd. And then we had this reprieve. And
at the same time, his commerce secretary
standing right next to him on the tarmac
said, "Actually, we're setting the
rates, but they're going to take effect
August 1st." What I have been hearing
time and time again from trading
partners outside of the United States is
that if you are in a negotiations with
this administration, they have said, "We
will give you more time past July 9th if
we are not there yet." Cuz they are
dealing with dozens of countries. What
is interesting is how the the uh level
of countries is changing the pecking
order. European Union Ursula Vanderline
had a call with the president yesterday.
They seem to be in good spirits. They
potentially ink something at least some
sort of announcement before Wednesday.
Very different from India and Japan
which everyone said out of the gate
we're going to be the first ones to get
a deal.
It was at the back of the line. It
sounds like Japan. Now that can change
over the next few days. Let's pick out a
single name before we get into the
conversation on trade anymore. Tesla
down by 6.5% in the pre-market. Elon
Musk over the weekend saying he's going
to start a new political party. The
backlash begins almost immediately.
Immediately. The president said he is
off the rails when it comes to this idea
of starting a new political party. The
issue with Tesla investors and to Dan
Ies's point at some point he thinks the
board maybe has to step in and give him
an ultimatum because they're concerned
this will put more hurdles in the way
when it comes to the regulation
environment when it comes to autonomous
driving. That is their problem with Elon
Musk getting more involved in politics.
That's Tesla. I think we need to talk
about what it could mean for Washington.
It wouldn't take long to figure out just
how much deficit spending has been
approved over the last 5 years or so
with the vote of one person. That's how
thin the margins have been down in
Washington DC. And that one person has
been the vice president of the United
States, whether it's JD Vance or Kla
Harris. The vote of one person putting
trillions on the debt pile in the United
States of America. And how Just Elon
Musk back in just a handful of
candidates could change the math down in
somewhere like the Senate.
You're exactly right. How many times
have we seen, you know, that last minute
call and you see the motorcade come from
the Naval Observatory to the Senate to
break the tie vote? What you see now
with Elon Musk is potentially some
people thinking, I agree with some of
what he's saying when it comes to
deficit spending. I would love to run
for political office. I don't have the
cash behind me. And maybe he does pick
out a few individual people. But what he
is saying on X is this massive
pronouncement that he is going to make
an independent party which we really
haven't seen the heyday of since the
late '90s.
Tesla stock in the pre-market down by
more than 6% so far in early trading.
Coming up this hour, lots to talk about
over the next 60 minutes or so. We'll
catch up with Ben Ladler of Besco as
futures slide on President Trump's
latest tariff threat. Henry Trees of
Vader Partners on the White House's tax
bill victory and Mike Pal of Black
Rockck are navigating policy volatility.
We begin this hour with future sliding
ahead of President Donald Trump's
renewed tariff threat. Trump saying
tariff letters will be delivered
starting at noon today. Ben Leo Pedesco
joins us now for more. Ben, welcome to
the program, sir. It's been too long.
Let's just get to sort of base case
baseline expectations for the next
several days. What are you and the team
expected to see?
Well, I'm hoping we see sort of more of
the same, right? I guess continued
uncertainty, but actually no dramatic
changes to this sort of backed off
tariff scenario. Um, you know, this does
see feel a little bit like sort of back
to reality. Of course, it never went
away. We just forgot about it for 90
days and markets, um, you know, ripped
off the back of that. Um, and I think
we're having a a probably a predictable
reset here.
Ben, let's talk about how that reset
might shape global markets. The bias at
the start of the year was to look to
international assets and maybe leave the
US behind. The US has snapped back so
aggressively so quickly. I think people
are questioning that all over again.
Where do you stand on the issue?
Yeah, I I I sort of think the genie out
of the bottle on US exceptionalism. I'm
not a bear on the US. I think the US is
fine, but I am looking for much more
average returns out of the US. These
sort of typical 10% levels, not the
twice that that we've got used to in the
last couple of years. And I think the
rest of the world looks looks pretty
good here. You still and most of the
world have this sort of double equity
and FX discount. The weaker dollars
clearly helping. And um I think some of
these countries have real silver linings
to a potential restart of this tariff
war. Well, when it comes to the restart
of the tariff war and you're looking at
all these countries, who are you most
excited about? Everyone was very amped
up and excited about Japan, but they've
seemed to uh taken uh less of a priority
with this administration than they did
just 30 40 days ago.
Look at Latam if you want to be excited.
Cheapest market, cheapest markets in the
world, best performing markets in the
world this year. Mexico, one of, you
know, a tiny handful of company of
countries that still have tariff-free
access to the US and places like Brazil,
you know, low 10% tariff, lots of
commodity carveouts, and a market which
would actually probably like more of a
slowdown um potentially coming in from
coming in from the rest of the world. So
there are, you know, there it's it's a
big world. There are definitely markets
out there that I think would um you
know, could have silver linings here.
It's interesting you mentioned Brazil
because the president was saying that
any countries that align themselves with
policies of the bricks could be charged
an additional 10% tariff. Brazil is the
host country for this week's brick
summit. Do you think Trump is more
emboldened now? It's a question
Jonathan's been asking all morning given
the fact that he has have the markets at
at an all-time high and he just passed
his one big beautiful bill.
We're going to find out that I guess
that's the one thing I know with some
certainty. But um yes, the Trump put is
definitely not as strong now as it was,
you know, when we were down in the hole,
you know, 20%, you know, plus ago. Um
you know, I would like to feel it's
still in place. I would like to feel,
you know, Trump feels he's in a better
place. Does he really need to go through
that all again, introduce that level of
uh of policy uncertainty, those even
greater drags on on US growth? You know,
I would hope, you know, cooler heads
prevail, but but who knows? You know, we
still have 90% of this administration to
go.
Ben, investors feel like they're in a
much better place compared to where they
were a few months ago. Are companies,
what are corporations doing now, Ben?
And a question we asked in the previous
hour, have we established how these
tariffs will be handled? Will they be
passed on or will they have to eat it on
margin?
Listen, I think companies are just like
the rest of us, right? I think uh this
level of uncertainty even though it may
have come down a bit is absolutely
corrosive to decision making to
confidence and I think you know
everything else being equal that means
that you are hiring less people uh you
are doing less capex and to your
question on tariffs I I think companies
have shown us and the margins are there
to prove it they will pass this on they
will pull that pricing lever at every
opportunity
Ben which economy which set of consumers
do you think is in a better position to
absorb that hit.
Well, it's the US consumer that's going
to take most of this, right? So, um uh
the US consumer is in reasonably good
shape, but you know, at the margin, this
is all this is all slowing, right? So, I
I'm not sure that the US is in the eye
of the storm here. I think the rest of
the world, you know, whether it's on the
e economy side with fiscal stimulus in
places like Germany and China, whether
it's on the market side with these
double discounts on the on the equity
market and the FX, I I think
international assets and this global
rotation has further to go.
Ben, I'd love to get your thoughts on
China because that is something that the
president is still working on more of a
bigger grand bargain deal. He talks
about at the same time, they have a
framework when it comes to export
controls and uh critical minerals. Do
you think China is investable?
I think it's definitely investable. Um,
we are have are seeing very strong
inflows into into Chinese assets. I was
just looking at the numbers this morning
from the from the US ETFs was like 500
million last week into China, 500
million the you know the week before. So
absolutely the money's going in. This is
a very cheap market. I think people are
betting there's a deal to be done. uh
and there there's a there's enough
flexibility on the Chinese side to they
want a deal and they have the policy
stimulus to maybe offset some of the
costs to the tariffs they're having to
eat right now.
Hey Ben, appreciate your time as always.
Ben Later there of Pesco. Constructive
on global equities but international
assets much more so than say the US
which is amazing to see given the tariff
levels we might see develop over the
next several weeks.
I know that's what I find so interesting
about all of his comments. Even a place
like Brazil when the president overnight
is saying anyone that aligns themselves
with bricks, Brazil is hosting the brick
summit is going to get an additional
penalty. But I think a lot of countries
view this the same way Ben views this in
the sense that this could hurt the
United States but could hurt us even
more when it comes to these tariffs.
Seem to be much more worried about US
consumption trends than maybe what might
happen to international exporters. And
there are some big international names
abroad that will have to stomach a lot
of this. a lot of this and we do know
that some of them even went to factories
say in China saying you're going to make
this and they're saying nope you're
going to have to do it and then that
comes down to the point we just had the
discussion with Andrew Hollenhorse at
one point does it get too difficult
where you're not just saying we're not
going to hire anymore because we have to
control some of these costs we might
have to start thinking about layoffs
futures this morning negative by about a
quarter of 1% pretty calm start to a
week filled with risk just one risk in
particular trade of course and we'll see
if we get over that hurdle later on this
week let's get you An update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara. Hey
yhara.
Hi John. We begin with the deadly
flooding in Texas. Rescuers there are
still searching for survivors after the
catastrophic catastrophic weather event
over the weekend. The disaster killed
more than 80 people, including many
children attending youth camps. It's
feared the casualty count will climb
with more heavy rain forecast in the
coming days.
Meanwhile, Israel is sending mediators
to restart talks with Hamas and Qatar
after the militant group said it was
ready to negotiate on President Trump's
proposed ceasefire. The proposal
includes the return of 10 living and 18
dead hostages. It's been accepted by
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu, who is set to meet with
President Trump in Washington today. And
Jurassic World's Rebirth scored the top
spot in the holiday weekend box office.
The latest installment in the Universal
Pictures Dinosaur franchise grossed over
$147 million in the US in Canada despite
mediocre reviews. The film is the
seventh in the franchise which has taken
in over $6 billion in ticket sales since
the first release in 1993. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
Yhara, thank you. You don't wish failure
on anyone, but obviously with that kind
of success over the weekend, it means
we're going to get Jurassic World 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8. I was a huge fan of Jurassic
Park, so I'm definitely going to see
this the original. Yeah, maybe I'll just
stay home and watch the original again.
Likewise. But don't you want to sort of
instill incentivize some creativity in
Hollywood?
Yeah, good luck with that.
Come up with something new. Maybe
possibly in the future. We can only
hope. Up next on the program, President
Trump setting the rates.
I think we'll have most countries done
by uh July 9th. Yeah. either a letter or
a deal,
but they but they go into effect on
August 1st. Tariffs go into effect
August 1st, but the president is setting
the rates and the deals right now.
Up next on the program, Henriett Trees
of Vader Partners live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
July 9th, just two days away, the end of
the 90-day pause on the reciprocal
tariffs announced on April 2nd. The
following day, we'll get some earnings
for you. Delta Airlines just around the
corner. A week tomorrow, CPI and JP
Morgan results. So, lots still to come
as the week progresses and we start to
take a bigger sneak peek of next week.
Equity futures on the S&P. So far this
morning, just a touch softer, no drama
here. We're down a third of 1% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, we're down by
0.45.
Under surveillance this morning,
shifting deadlines.
I think we'll have most countries done
by uh July 9th. Either a letter or a
deal,
but the but they go into effect on
August 1st. Tariffs go into effect
August 1st, but the president is setting
the rates and the deals right now.
Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump announcing
letters and tariff rates will go out to
trading partners starting at noon today.
Trump also threatening an additional
levy for BRICS nations. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now from
Washington for more. So Tyler, let's set
things up over the next several days.
What can we expect today, tomorrow, and
into Wednesday?
Yeah, hey John. Well, we should say that
the administration wants to show some
sort of forward progress here, but it's
pretty clear that the situation is
fluid. Now, our understanding is they're
going to send these letters in the
coming days, but that they're not going
to collect the levies until August 1st.
That would suggest to us that there's a
3-week extension when it comes to
negotiations. And the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson said as much in an
interview over the weekend. He said the
administration's playbook here is
maximum pressure, in his words, and that
they're hoping the letters will light a
fire under some of these trading
partners to put their best offer on the
table. Now, our analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that there's sort of three
scenarios that could unfold in the next
week. One is that we could see some
framework agreements announced, such as
what we saw with Vietnam, though worth
mentioning that negotiators from the
country were here in Washington over the
weekend because they are still ironing
out the details. The second is that we
could see those countries that the US
feels are negotiating in good faith get
that extension and they could say that
they're making forward progress here and
they want to continue the talks down the
line. Perhaps the EU would be a good
candidate for that. And what's really
been sort of a a reversal in favor when
it comes to how the administration views
the trading block with it being
confirmed this morning that Ursula
Vanderly, the commission president had a
phone call directly with President Trump
over the weekend. Then lastly, John, the
third scenario is that the
administration is going to dictate
tariffs to a certain uh sector of our
trading partners. These are the smaller
countries that don't do as much trade
with the United States. The Treasury
Secretary said over the weekend this
could be a hundred or so countries that
face probably that 10% baseline tariff,
but it's worth noting that they're
trying to pitch those as deals and
that's sort of the messaging that we
could expect from the administration
moving forward.
Right. We might see that at noon today
according to the president when it comes
to those letters. Tyler, sit on the EU
for a second. The spokesman said, "We're
at the beginning of the endgame, at
least for an agreement in principle. How
long are these negotiations going to
last even if you ink a framework?
Right. Well, we're expecting it to last
really months and we need to keep in
mind that trade deals often do take a
lot of time. Take China for example,
which of course is on its own separate
track, but that phase one trade deal
took 18 months to negotiate. So, it is a
really ambitious timeline to get this
done. In the European Union's case in
particular, we're talking about 27
different member states trying to
negotiate one trade deal. And we've
started to see sort of a splintering
when it does come to those trading
partners. We had reporting over the
weekend on the Bloomberg terminal that
some of these nations want to boost uh
investment in the US for example to try
to spur negotiations forward. But then
you have another sector of uh parts of
countries that are saying instead let's
put into effect our retaliatory tariffs
because they don't want to wait around
for some sort of negotiation. And that's
sort of the tension that we're seeing
playing out because Amarie, as you all
know, they already have $25 billion
worth of retalatory tariffs ready to go
to pull the trigger on if they want to
immediately. And they're preparing about
a hundred billion dollars more that
could come down the line.
Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Down in Washington DC, more
from Tyler throughout the next couple of
hours. Henrietta Trace Va Partners has
this to say. It is our base case
expectation that the base 10% tariffs
will not come off. We're also expecting
the section 232 sectoral tariffs to be
announced in the days ahead. Henrietta
joins us now for more. Henrietta,
welcome to the program. It feels like
10% might be the best case, the best
case outcome for many of these trading
nations, including the Europeans. What
do you think the worst case outcome
might be?
Yeah, I think when we look back and
reflect on today in the grand scheme of
things, this is going to represent the
low point of the Trump administration at
this juncture for where tariff rates are
going to go. If you listen to what Tyler
just explained and and where the trade
negotiations are, there's no need to
delay implementation of tariffs to
August 1st unless they're going up. So
all those 100 nations, some of them are
exposed to 50% tariff rates. But very
disconcertingly, the president came out
over the weekend and said some of those
tariffs could go in at 60 or 70% rates,
which would be even higher than the ones
he rolled out on April 2nd. And what
we're seeing as in the case of Vietnam
is that they're going to sort of
bifurcate whether the nations are
shipping things that were made in that
country or trans shipped. So there's a
whole basket of nations in Southeast
Asia who are exposed to a blended tariff
freight of about 50% 20% on their um
owned sourced and exported items and
then 40% on things that are trans
shipped. So we have we have a sorry a
30% uh effective tariff rate. that
that's sort of the direction we're going
and I think we're going to see the
sectoral tariffs come on and be
negotiated. So things are going up from
here, not down.
Henrietta, what you're describing sounds
like liberation day part two. Is the
market unprepared for that?
I think the market is trying to operate
like this is going to be a nothing
burger. Uh you know, we hear the taco
stuff all the time, but we are seeing
tire rates go up. And one thing I really
want to flag and I I see you know
Treasury Secretary Bessett uh on the you
know media tour now talking about the
OBVBB and these tariffs that are
obviously top of mind. But one of the
things that he argues frequently is that
this is just a one-time hit and not
inflationary.
And that's inconsistent with the actions
of the administration. We've seen tariff
rates rise no fewer than six times that
I could just count while I was sitting
here uh going into just the first six
months this year. And they're set to
rise again. That would be a seventh. And
then we're going to get seven different
sectoral tariffs. And then we're going
to have what 90 180 day delays in deals
with the EU or Japan or South Korea or
India. This is a perpetual component
just like it was in Trump's first term
where we got the tax bill done. We spent
the next three years raising tariffs in
in that case on China and 232s. And I
expect to see that again.
Well, two things to point out. The
Treasury Secretary consistently makes
this case that it's not inflationary
because it's a one-time price adjudment
adjustment when it comes to potentially
the hit on goods. When it comes to
though what the president is doing and
what you're pointing out, changing the
tariff rates a number of times. Isn't
that how he negotiates a maximalist
approach to then deescalate? We saw that
play out with Beijing.
I I mean, you deescalate from 145% to
33%. I don't know how fantastic that is.
um you know, and they're all stacked on
different tariff rates from the first
administration. So, I I think that the
general trajectory is tariff rates going
up. And then as things pop up like this
brick stuff overnight, you're seeing the
president deploy tariffs as his most
effective bullet in his arsenal. And I
think that that's going to continue
because it is an incredibly effective
bullet. I'm actually writing a note to
clients right now talking about how
there will be no leash on the president
on tariffs until we get into the general
election cycle which is not until
February of next year. So we've got
another six or seven months of this.
So Henry, just hold up because this is
important. You've got business leaders
and investors starving for clarity and
some who believe that clarity will come
on this issue in the coming months.
You're saying as Amaria said for quite a
while this might just be a feature of
this administration.
Quite right. Exactly. So, it's exactly
what it was in 2017 and 18. And what I
see is almost an exact replica of his
first term. You wait to get your
legislative agenda accomplished. That
was done last week. The OBB is done.
We're not going to be passing any
additional legislation. We're going to
have to deal with a government shutdown
potentially, but the debt ceiling's off
the table. There's no need to extend the
2017 tax rates. That we're done on the
legislative front. That means that the
next three years, just like in the Trump
first term, will be all trade all the
time. Let's address the backlash to that
bill that was passed. The backlash from
one individual, Elon Musk, declaring,
unveiling a new party. Now, Henrietta,
we were talking about this about 20
minutes ago. I'm not sure if you missed
it at the top of the program, just how
much deficit spending has been approved
in this country in the last 5 years by
single vote margins and how disruptive a
new party could be if they just target
some very tight districts in the
midterms. How difficult would it be to
put that together with only 18 months,
not even, left on the calendar?
Incredibly difficult. Um, so what you
what I notice when I hear Elon Musk talk
is that he does go out of his way to
highlight that there are a couple of
Senate seats that you could really be
impactful in. That kind of nuance
thinking um is really critical. If
you're going to deploy independent cash
without, you know, the Democratic behind
you behind you or the Republican party
behind you, you're going to need to be
very targeted and then you can be very
disruptive. Think like Kirstston Cinema,
Joe Mansion, Ran Paul, these individual
senators who have outside sway and
impact because outside contributors have
propped up or created that member. And
that's the kind of disruption that Elon
Musk could create if he wanted to. I
don't imagine that it would be, you
know, all of a sudden there's three
parties representative equally in
Congress, but you could really upset the
apple cart in key states like committing
to spend in Alaska or North Carolina to
take on Tillis' vacant seat or Susan
Collins in Maine. There's a couple of
ways that you could spend money and have
it have maximum impact.
Henreda Trace of Vader Partners.
Henreda, thank you as always. Good to
see you looking ahead not just to the
next several months, but to the rest of
this term,
rest of this term. And Ben Ladler put
that 10% way through the n 10% we've
already gone through. 90% to go through
a 1,460day
administration. And to Henrietta's
point, the fiscal agenda is done.
There's really not much more they can
do. That's over with. Now it's going to
be fully focused on trade. What's
different from Trump 2 than Trump one is
he is going after the entire world when
it comes to resetting tariff rates. This
is not just about China.
It's not just China. It's Europe, Japan,
India, and a whole lot more. Equity
futures on the S&P negative by about a
quarter of 1%. We'll talk more about
trade in just a moment. The former Trump
White House trade official Kucawitz.
Plus, Yihara with your morning movers.
Tesla falling as Elon Musk's feud with
President Trump heats up once again.
[Music]
Coming into Monday on the S&P 500.
Two-day winning streak, two week winning
streak. Equity futures pulling back from
alltime highs this morning by only a
quarter of 1% on the S&P down by 0.4 on
the Nasdaq 100. Check out the bond
market, the front end of the curve. The
2-year bond yield into Monday, higher
for three straight sessions. Yields up
on the week for the first time at a
front end in about a month. This morning
we're down a single basis point 38697.
That stronger than expected payrolls
report at the headline at least that
upside surprise unlocking some higher
bond yields going into the long weekend.
Yields this morning just a touch lower
at the front end of the curve. Want to
turn to crude and finish on energy for
you just briefly. WTI and Bren little
move this morning but plenty of action
over at OPEC plus initiating another
boost to supply.
Another boost to supply and it looks
like potentially the market can absorb
it. That's what Saxo Bank is saying in
the short-term downside risk to crude
appear contained because not only are
they adding more when you saw the prices
that the Saudis are sending to Asia,
they've boosted those prices. So clearly
the market is able to absorb what
they're putting into the putting in
right now. But that's because we're at
summer peak travel demand and they may
be trying to get ahead of what people
are saying 2026 is going to look like.
Not a time when you want to try to
increase that market share.
This is a well supplied market right
now. That's for sure. or in the minds of
many. Crude down by a tenth of 1%. WTI
with 2 hours until the opening bell.
Let's get you some morning moves and
cross back over to Yahara for more. Hey
yra.
Hi John. We start with Tesla down 6.4%
in the pre-market after Elon Musk
launched his new political party. And
the way Dan I put it to you and an Marie
earlier is that the move this move lower
is on the prospect that this could
sharpen the divide between Musk and
Trump and it could lead to Trump
blocking Musk's autonomous driving
ambitions. And of course this idea that
Musk is too distracted with politics at
a time when Tesla needs his leadership.
Moving on to another automaker, we have
Stalantis now down 4.2% on a downgrade
by Bank of America to neutral. That's
because they are expecting to see a very
weak first half report later this month.
They say that even though Stalantis is
making progress here in the US, it is
struggling over in Europe, especially on
EVs, according to BA. And we end with
Boeing. This is one of a it's actually
up about a tenth of a percent, but it's
a few it's among a few stocks that we
are seeing move as President Trump's
July 9th tariff deadline looms.
Investors are worried that new trade
barriers could drive up costs for the
plane maker, which of course relies on a
global supply chain, but also that
China's retaliatory tariffs could makes
make its planes more ext expensive than
its rivals like Airbus. And I will note
that China is a key and growing market
for Boeing. John
Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in just a moment. And more on
Boeing as well in about 40 minutes time.
We'll catch up with Sheila Kyolu of Jeff
on a rainown this morning. One of our
top stories, President Donald Trump
threatening to impose an additional 10%
tariff on any country aligning with the
anti-American policies of bricks. The
threat comes as the president prepares
to send tariff letters. Stanagan noon.
So what's so interesting about this of
course is everyone thought India was
going to get a deal almost immediately
alongside Japan. But India is also a
part of bricks. So are they now in the
crossfires of the president with any
country that is aligning with bricks but
actually India is in bricks. There's a
lot of confusion. This deadline was
self-imposed. It feels very fluid. You
have the president saying he's sending
out letters today at noon. You have his
commerce secretary Howard Lutnik
standing next to him yesterday on the
tarmac almost giving a little asterct as
the president is talking about tariffs.
He's like, "Well, whoa, well actually
August 1st is now going to be when the
tariffs come into effect. So if you are
a trading partner, you realize you
really have between July 9th and August
1st until potentially they kick the can
down the road again."
A lot of people in this market just want
to move on. Decent case study for that
was last week Vietnam. They come out
with tariffs on Vietnam of 20%. They
sound really high, but they're so much
lower than April 2nd at 46%. Market just
wants to move on. I'm not sure this is
what many investors want to see. Drag
this out for another several weeks.
Extended pretend, set something, move on
seems to be what a lot of people have
said to us they'd like to see.
Right. But that's not going to be how
this works because even if you come out
and say you have a deal, there's still
going to be negotiations happening
behind the scenes. And we've heard that
already from Vietnam officials saying
that we're actually still working on
trying to make this more concrete. The
president almost immediately rushed. You
can almost feel the excitement in his
truths. He said, "We have a deal. I'll
be back with the details." Then he came
back with the details. Then Vietnam
said, "Well, actually, we're still
working on some of those details." I
think the European Union spokesperson
put it best talking about the fact that
Ursula Van and the president spoke this
weekend. This is the beginning of the
end. This means this is going to drag on
a lot longer when actually coming to
full throttle trade deals. What we see
right now is just frameworks and
agreements
or the end of the beginning.
Yeah.
Because this might take a long long
time. Henry Draveda partners with us
about 15 minutes ago saying what Amaria
said repeatedly this is a feature this
is going to be an ongoing feature of
this administration according to
Henrietta and others. Want to turn to
this story. President Trump is
criticizing former first party Elon Musk
plan to start a new political party. The
president calling it ridiculous and
saying that third parties have never
worked in the US.
They really haven't worked in the US
except in the late 90s with Ross Perau.
That was probably the the high water
mark when it comes to political parties.
I think you bring up an interesting
point. Potentially Elon Musk can shift
individuals in specific districts or
specific states. The problem of course
we see in the Tesla stock is what does
this mean for his relationship with the
most powerful important person not just
the United States but maybe in America.
I think what's interesting is what this
potentially does to him abroad. Wall
Street Journal this morning is saying
that Beijing no longer views Elon Musk
as a geopolitical asset and is going to
shy away from him publicly according him
which they were doing because he was so
tethered to Trump. Now you're going to
see a lot of heads of state not want to
be associated with him because of this
feud he has with the president.
Tesla down in the pre-market by 6.5%.
Dives of Wbush pretty clear about this.
He's bullish the name $500 price target
outperform rating all of that good
stuff. very very bullish on autonomous
vehicles, robo taxis. He thinks the
board should step in. That's his opinion
this morning.
What's the red line for the board?
Because we've seen this feud already. It
feels like one step forward, two steps
back. There was supposed to be this
phone call. They were supposed to make
peace and be friends again, maybe in
quotes. What is the red line for the
board? Is this this political party or
potentially is this enough for them to
say if you continue on this then you're
going to have to maybe step away?
That's the latest on Tesla this morning.
Let's squeeze in some foreign policy.
The Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is set to visit President
Trump at the White House later today.
Trump telling reporters a hostage deal
with Hamas could be ready as soon as
this week.
Feels like there's some fresh momentum
on this. We had negotiators from Israel
and Hamas together with Qatar and
Egyptian mediators meet over the weekend
in Doha to try to formalize an
agreement. The president is feeling like
he did have this huge victory in the
Middle East when it comes to what
happened with Iran and Israel and this
would be the final stage. And the
president really needs this finalized
before he looks at broader Middle East
peace agreements. And something we saw
in the first Trump administration, of
course, was the Abraham Accords. He
wants to see another version of that,
particularly with Riad and Israel.
I think we'd all like to see further
deescalation in the region. That's for
sure. That's the latest on Israel and
the Israeli Prime Minister's visit to
Washington. Let's turn back to trade.
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson saying
that some trade partners tariff rates
will boomerang back to Liberation Day
levels. Joining us now to discuss is
Kate Kukowitz, the former White House
trade official and former senior USR
trade negotiator. Kate, welcome to the
program. Is this the beginning of the
end or just the end of the beginning?
Well, I think this is President Trump at
his best when he's when he's bringing
the pressure and supporting his
negotiators. I think this is his
favorite time of the negotiations when
he can be extremely maximalist. And I
think as a trade negotiator, it helps to
have a leader like that pushing for the
end, pushing for the negotiations to get
over the finish line and providing that
sort of threat that that helps his team
actually tell their counterparts he's
serious.
Kate, what determines whether you get a
UK outcome, a Vietnam outcome, a China
outcome, or something much worse?
Well, you know, I actually think that's
quite an important question, and the
Vietnam deal sort of shows that there
are two different trajectories here.
Let's set China to the side for now
because I think that's a separate type
of negotiation. But you have a UK
outcome and you have a Vietnam outcome.
And I think for the list of countries
with which the United States is actively
negotiating, you see two different
pathways here. One for the more
developed economies probably looking for
something like the UK got and those more
export-heavy uh economies that receive
those very high tariff rates. Maybe the
Vietnam deal reflects what the Trump
administration is is putting on the
table.
Is the Vietnam deal actually done
though?
Well, you know, back to our end of the
beginning, you're right, Anarie. These
are framework agreements and and I think
you described it perfectly. The truth
announcing the Vietnam deal was, I
think, quite gleeful. The Vietnamese,
uh, of course, later in time said, "We
still have a lot of things to work out
here." But let's make no mistake, this
is a really important outcome. The
Vietnamese, of course, were on the hook
for very high tariffs. They've been, you
know, the recipient of the eyeire of the
Trump administration going back to the
first time around the increasing trade
deficit, particularly as it relates to
China. The longer term play for the
Vietnamese, however, is going to be how
it manages this this very very
challenging place they find themselves
between China and the United States. And
these will be the details on the trans
shshipment that they're going to have to
work out.
When you look at what's coming up this
week, the president says at noon he's
going to be sending tariff letters out.
You have the European Union, the
commission talking about the fact that
the president got on the phone with
Ursula Vanderel. They're looking to get
some sort of framework before July 9th.
What buckets are different countries in?
Well, I mean, I think you've seen the
the president, his surrogates talk about
this smaller set of of nations or
economies which are are much further
along. I think the president had been
quite hopeful last week. Vietnam would
be the first of several announcements
that day and you've seen him signal that
talks with India quite forward, that
talks with the EU are quite forward.
Obviously, he's been a little frustrated
with where things are with Japan, but I
think these are the countries that that
we can expect some outcomes this week if
if negotiators can get a few of these
wrinkles, you know, ironed out.
These are also the same countries though
that given the fact that they are in
these deep talks, we'll get extensions.
And is that what you think commerce
secretary Howard Lutnik was talking
about when he talked about April f um
August 1st?
Well, again, I think the president is
trying to signal to these countries that
they need to stop delaying. You know, he
had hoped to have these deals ready last
week. I think his his this new notion of
letters going out is really his way of
ratcheting up pressure. Um, typically
when we see tariffs go into place, there
is somewhat of a delay to allow
importers some time to adjust. So, I
think we'll still have to see exactly
when things are implemented, but I I
really do see this more as the president
trying to ratchet up leverage. How
surprised are you given the fact that
you were a trade negotiator under Trump
that Japan and the European Union have
basically swapped fates?
Well, Japan is is quite interesting
because I think the president was
surprised when when he got the Nepon
steel deal across the finish line. He
probably suspected that would be
sufficient to to wrap things up. Of
course, the Japanese really want to see
an outcome uh on cars and and the
president does not seem inclined to
deliver that. Then, of course, you know,
when you're negotiating with
democracies, this is always the
challenge. Japan has an election coming
up which constrains its negotiators. So,
you know, it is quite shocking, I think,
that we've ended up in this place. But
but this is part of being a trade
negotiator with with governments which
have to be responsive to their own
domestic constituencies.
Europe, I think, will get across the
finish line so long as we continue to
have these leader level discussions. as
as we've discussed before, you know, the
European Union is a very challenging
negotiating partner because it does
represent 27 different countries and and
so if you don't get right to the leader
level, you don't get right to these big
commercial deals, it's very challenging.
Uh so if President Vander Lion and
President Trump maintain this dialogue,
I think we can get that one finished.
Hey Kate, appreciate your view. Kate
Kukawitz there joining us on the latest
trade push down in Washington DC. To
Kate's point, the fact of the matter is
for the Europeans to have President
Trump set such a high pressure campaign
to have the Europeans turn around and
basically accept based on our reporting
a 10% tariff without much push back is
quite something.
It's quite something. But also, when it
comes to the European Union, how long is
this going to take? Because to Kate's
point, this is dozens of countries with
the commission representing them, this
could be very challenging. Domestic
politics is going to be hard in Japan.
We heard from the prime minister of
Sheibba yesterday. He said, "We will
stand firm because they have an election
coming up. So, they can't look like
they're placating to the United States
of America, especially when it comes to
two big industries, autos and rice."
If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Equity futures this
morning. So far, at least just slightly
negative. We're down by 0.26%
with an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Back
with us here is Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
Hi, John. We start with the latest out
of Texas. At least 80 people have died
and dozens more are still missing
following Friday morning's flat flood
flash floods in the city of Kurville
where water levels on the Guadalupe
River rose by 26 ft in just 45 minutes.
Now officials are warning the casualty
count will climb with more rain in the
forecast. Meanwhile, Iran's Supreme
Leader Ayatollah Ali Kam appeared in
public this weekend. According to Iran
state media, it was his first appearance
since the 12-day war with Israel last
month after weeks of sheltering in a
bunker. The New York Times reported
Hamina attended an annual Shait Chia
religious ceremony held at his compound.
And OPEC plus agreed to a larger thanex
expected production hike for the fourth
straight month. The group increased
supply by 548,000 barrels a day for
August, citing summer demand as reason
for optimism that the extra barrels
could be absorbed by the market. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John Yhara, thank
you. Appreciate it. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, boomerang tariffs.
We're going to be very busy over the
next 72 hours. Then on August 1st, you
will boomerang back to your April 2nd
tariff level. So, I think we're going to
see a lot of deals very quickly.
Up next, we'll catch up with Mike Pal of
Blackrock live from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Equity futures so far on the
S&P, no drama. We're down a quarter of
1%. We're down by 4/10en of 1% on the
NASDAQ 100. As we come into this week at
all-time highs under surveillance this
morning, boomerang tariffs.
We're going to be very busy over the
next 72 hours. We are going to President
Trump's going to be sending letters to
some of our trading partners saying that
if you don't move things along then on
August 1st, you will boomerang back to
your April 2nd tariff level. So I think
we're going to see a lot of deals very
quickly.
So here's the latest this morning.
Stocks falling as US trading partners
rush to finalize trade deals ahead of
President Trump's Wednesday deadline.
Mike Pal of Black Rockck writing, "As
macroeconomic and market uncertainty
persists, it's time to reimagine alpha."
Mike joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning.
Good to be here.
Good to see you, sir. We'll talk about
various trading strategies and the ones
that have worked so far this year, but
let's just start top down super macro.
What are you and the team expecting this
week? So I think the bottom line is we
see this week as part of a longer term
picture where a lot of trade policy is
going to get made but there's going to
be some twists and turn in in the road
along the way. I think as we heard from
Secretary Bess August one is going to be
a pretty relevant point in time. This
week's important but I think what we're
looking for is you know a lot of
discussion a lot of frameworks getting
announced but but this week is not the
one focal point in time. We've had some
guests come on this program. Jim Karen
and Morgan Stanley comes to mind who
believes the second half of 25 is the
half of clarity. Certainty. If the first
half was uncertainty, the second half is
clarity. Do you share that view?
I mean, I think on a relative basis,
that's absolutely the case. I mean, the
first half of 2025 was peak uncertainty.
If you look just in the last week, you
know, we've gotten clarity on what the
fiscal policy picture is going to look
likely for the balance of the Trump
administration. And I think as the days
and weeks accumulate, we're going to get
greater certainty around what the trade
policy posture is going to be country by
country, but globally as well.
You mentioned August 1st. Can you
believe any of these deadlines if they
just keep moving and they're
self-imposed?
Well, I think that's why the the John's
prior question is is exactly the right
one. It's all about the direction of
travel of uncertainty. Is there any
fixed point in time where all of this is
going to be settled? You know, I
wouldn't necessarily bank on it, but is
the direction going to be towards
greater clarity, greater certainty, more
frameworks, more stability? That also
seems pretty likely to be the case.
Most people were thinking it was going
to be 10% baseline tariffs across the
board, basically a ring around the
United States. But then the president
came out talking about Vietnam and they
have a much higher tariff level. Are you
expecting some countries to get higher
than 10%. So, I think Vietnam is an
interesting case interesting case and I
thought your prior guest kind of really
got at it. You know, I think regardless
of who was um in charge in Washington,
this issue of Chinese trans shshipment,
China as a using third countries as a
jumping off point for trade would have
been a contentious one. And I think
Vietnam is kind of one of those
countries that's really in the focal
point. I mean, I think what we saw
announced last week was 20% tariffs but
40% on Chinese trans shship shipment.
And I think that what it gets at is
there's this issue of are countries like
Vietnam going to be a hub that's a
jumping off point for access to the US
market and how does this US
administration think about both striking
deals that matter strategically with
countries like Vietnam while also being
really focused on some of the issues
like around Chinese content, Chinese
trans shshipment that are important for
President Trump and frankly be regard
would be important regardless of who the
US president is. You have a unique
perspective because you sat across these
people just a year ago, especially the
European Union. Are you surprised by how
quickly they've changed their tune when
it comes to the Trump administration?
You know, like I said, I think one of
the things that's noteworthy and one of
the things that I think we expect is
this is going to be a path with some
twists and turns and I think markets are
expecting that. Markets are, you know,
counting on it. uh even um but you know
last time I was here in the studio we
talked about the path with respect to
Europe that path being a pretty
challenging one I think we expected the
path to Japan would be more
straightforward here we are six seven
weeks later and it's just the reverse
but I think that highlights that there's
a direction of travel that direction of
travel is towards greater clarity
greater certainty but the twists and
turns are going to take us to some
unexpected places along the way
who has to start with the tariffs that's
the clarity we really want here is it
the European exporter the US importer
the US consumer what's your base case
now and what are you looking for some
kind of guidance on that very important
issue
so in terms of the macro outlook and and
well let's try and decide who's paying
the tariffs who has to stomach this
whether it is the US importers which by
definition will have to but I want to
understand who's going to burden the
cost will it be the European exporter
the US importer the US consumer and then
try and get our hands around this issue
of the US versus the rest of the world
when it comes to equities
listen I guess I'd say a couple one, you
know, what's clear and we hear this from
the Fed and other economic forecasters
is this is a negative growth shock. This
is a price positive shock for price
levels. That's true in the United
States. That's generally true globally
as well. So, everybody's going to bear
the burden of this to some extent. I
think one of the things that's been
surprising has been the degree to which
we haven't really seen this shock yet
play out in terms of uh the price data
or in terms of even the activity data as
well. And I think what that reflects is
in some ways the uncertainty that we've
seen has two sides of the coin. One side
has been huge swings in market sentiment
that have really characterized the first
half. The other has been corporate
leaders, real kind of actors in the in
the real economy being frozen into
place. And yes, that's true in terms of
no new capex or limited new capex.
That's true in terms of limited new
hiring. But it's also in true in terms
of cautiousness on raising prices,
cautiousness on doing anything
irreversible with respect to their their
workforces. And that's because it's a
pretty uncertain environment and doing
things that are fixed and locking that
into place is not what they want to do.
So again, I think it's important to bear
in mind that there's a lot of
uncertainty out there precisely because
actors in the real economy have wanted
to pause to see where we're going and I
think we'll get more clarity on that in
the back after.
Investors haven't paused. We've seen
massive reversals in this equity market,
particularly here in the United States.
What strategies are working right now
and what strategies do you think will
continue to work through the rest of
this year?
Yes. So I'd highlight two things in
particular. you know, one on balance, we
still prefer the US equity market to
other markets globally, you know, and I
think that requires that you kind of
hold two things in your head at the same
time. Yes, uh the US is uh the source of
a lot of uncertainty. We've been talking
about that. And yet at the same time,
the US is also the single biggest
destination still for dynamism,
innovation, resilience. And that's
particularly true in the US corporate
sector, particularly true in the
technology sector in particular. Those
exposures that really get you access to
AI, the technological um transformations
that we're seeing, that's a US story and
that's one that we continue to think
investors should get exposure to. The
other would just be to say, you know,
this is a very uncertain macro
environment. taking big swings at the
bat in such an uncertain environment
around making big macro calls. That's a
hard thing to do if you're an investor.
Finding strategies that are going to be
primed to outperform that are more
market neutral that aren't taking big
swings in the bat. Things like
systematic strategy that can deliver
alpha in a bunch of different types of
market environment and provide liquidity
while they're at it. Those types of
things that are maybe a little less
focused on the macro, a little more
focused on delivering alpha in uncertain
environments. Those are the types of
things that we think portfolio managers
are really uh capitalizing on.
Mike P of Black Rockck. Mike, appreciate
it. Thank you, sir, for sharing some of
your thoughts on policy and what's
working right now. Up next on the
program, Kelly Kaminsky of Alpha
Simplex, Sheila Kolu of Jeffrey, Steven
Stanley of Santandere, and Kathy Jones
of Charge Swap.
Fact that the unemployment rate is going
down is something that of course is
quite surprising. It feels like a lot of
optimism has been priced in the market,
but we do expect a soft patch later this
year.
The story here is not the headline.
The labor market's okay. Their urgency
to cut goes down.
Base case we have them not cutting.
Certainly July is off the table.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Just a nice quiet summer Monday to kick
off a training week from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Your scores
look like this this morning. all-time
highs into Monday. Equity futures
pulling back by just two ten of 1%.
We're down by a third on the NASDAQ 100
as we wait for the self-imposed tariff
deadline of July 9th to come up quickly
just two days away. Blurring the lines
over the weekend as to just what the
deadline actually is.
Feels like we're on parallel tracks,
right? Because you're saying it's quiet.
But at noon today, the president's
talking about the fact that the tariff
letters are going out. Is he going to
share them with the rest of the world?
We still don't have the language when it
comes to what they agreed upon with
China. And then at the same time, the
commerce secretary said rates are going
to be set, but they don't come into
place until August 1st. And what I
continuously hear, as I heard from the
Swiss trade team, is that this
administration was pretty honest with
them. If we are in discussions with you,
and we're not done by July 9th, you'll
get an extension. So, who's getting a
letter? Who's getting an extension?
Who's getting a higher or lower tariff
rate from a April 2nd, Liberation Day? A
lot of questions to be answered.
A lot of people just starving for
clarity. We've said that a few times
over the past few hours or so. Mike Pal
of Black Rockck saying that's exactly
what you're getting on taxes in the last
week and on trade maybe in the next
several weeks.
So what he's saying is he can't pinpoint
an exact date when potentially some of
these deals will come to fruition, but
it's the direction of travel. The
direction of travel has been a
maximalist approach from this president
on Liberation Day, April 2nd, a reprieve
for when negotiations are happening and
then potentially you will get some sort
of deals. I think what everyone has been
really shocked about was how Japan and
the European Union have seemingly
switched places. Japan was going to be
first out of the gate. Well, Japan has
an election coming up. So, it's a little
bit challenging for them to make a lot
of these concessions and the European
Union, I think, got the message, you're
on the back foot, you're going to be
left behind and now they've been quickly
rushed to the start of the queue.
Max Kentner, HSBC, publishing just
moments ago to us. The big story in July
is not this week's tariffs deadline.
It's the start of the reporting season.
down to rare lights this week. JP Morgan
next week. He thinks the bar is low.
Says the following. Any dip this week
has to be bought very quickly. This
market's seen a massive reversal since
the lows of April. Just like that, very
quick.
And what's going to be so interesting
about when it comes to earning season is
how much is any of this impacting the US
consumer? Are they still going out? Are
they still spending? Are they still
traveling? Or tariffs starting to bite?
Equity futures this morning on the S&P
just slightly softer. We're down by 210
of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex
as trade tensions weigh on market.
Shilakolu of Jeffre looking ahead to
airline results and Kathy Jones of
Charles Swab as traders push out rate
cut bets. We begin this hour with stocks
pulling back from alltime highs as
President Donald Trump reignites trade
concerns. Kenny Kaminsky Alpha Simplex
writing equity trend signals are still
modestly strong given the volatility and
uncertainty in recent months. Kenny
joins us now for more. Kenny, welcome to
the program and good morning. It feels
like sentiment is quite one-sided now
after the massive reversal over the last
several months or so. Yet people still
come on the program and say the pain
trade is higher equities from here. Do
you agree?
I would have to agree that that's what
we're seeing especially in the market
data. What was interesting though is we
did see a little bit of a pivot last
week where you saw small caps and
perhaps more domestic focus being in in
in ahead. And so I'd say that, you know,
the general theme has continually been a
little bit more progrowth and positive
for equities, which is something I
wouldn't have guessed a few weeks ago in
particular.
Katy, you're seeing that in equities.
Can you say you're seeing the
corresponding thing in the bond market
at the same time?
Definitely not. I'd say that the bond
market has been very tricky this year.
We've seen very mixed signals across
different parts of the curve. We've
definitely seen short signals on the
long end suggesting that yields need to
be higher over long term. Uh that may
suggest some uncertainty about where
rates are going to go over long
horizons. But in general, it's been very
tricky to trade the bond market recently
because there's just been this push and
pull between when are rates going to be
cut and and also just, you know, in
general, what are the impact of all
these macro themes on fixed income given
this? Are you surprised the bond market
didn't get a vote on the one big
beautiful bill?
Good question. I mean, I think uh you
haven't seen that much movement. You are
seeing some uh steepening as well
recently, like particularly today.
You're seeing that as well. So, I'd say
that, you know, the bond market is not
voting yet. It definitely voted on what
was going on in Liberation Day. So, I
think, you know, we just have to wait
and see when, you know, bond investors
are really voicing their opinions. But
really right now very mixed in fixed
income.
Do you think bond investors are going to
be paying close attention to this
deadline this week or they feel like
it's self-imposed and already the
administration has signaled that a lot
of these trading partners are going to
get more time to really work out the
agreement with the United States?
Well, I mean, if you look at just how
much movement you have today and how the
market has responded to recent events,
it's almost that the market is sort of
shrugging off some of this news because
it's nothing is really a big shock. It's
everything that we've been discussing
along the way and there's been continual
backtracking and back and forth. So, I
think people are waiting to know the
real results before they start
positioning themselves for the impact of
those uh potential trade uh decisions.
Katy, in the meantime, what's working in
the commodity market?
Not much, I would say. I mean, I'd say
that commodities have been up this
month, but there hasn't been big swings.
Obviously, people have been following
oil um and energy in general. Um, but
when you look at things like gold, which
had also been pretty much on a tear this
year, it has been sort of stagnating
some as well. So I think you know
looking for that demand uh that demand
increase that might potentially occur
because of having better stronger growth
is something we're kind of seeing right
now this month that commodities have
been up uh but it's not particularly
strong yet but it's the potential for
for a trend going the next few months.
Okay, as I listen to you talk about
commodities and fixed income it just
sounds like you're seeing convictionless
markets in certain asset classes. Would
it be fair to describe them as that?
Precisely.
I think what we have seen is strong
conviction in equities, a weak dollar,
but everything else has been kind of
wavering around in sort of anticipation
to understand the impact of these trade
negotiations, but also just sort of is
the US economy strong enough to actually
follow through with this narrative and
that's why I think other asset classes
are really trying to really waiting uh
and sort of treading back and forth.
Kelly, do you find that difficult to
reconcile while we are seeing that
conviction in places like equities and
in foreign exchange while you're not
seeing the same thing elsewhere?
Definitely. So, but I mean I think these
are just at different time horizons. I
think equities move quickly. I think the
bond market needs a little bit more
clarity on multiple economic uh factors
such as trade as well as you know the
overall health of the US economy and the
job market. And those are a lot of
themes to reconcile particularly with
the Fed that hasn't moved yet. So I
think bonds doesn't surprise me, but
commodities I think they're they're sort
of in the wake of what you know you I
would have expected them to move more
just with the tariffs themselves just
fundamentally. But we still haven't seen
that yet. So that I think helps
investors be less worried about this
inflation concern or other concerns
related to trade in the short term.
Stuck in limbo. Ky, appreciate the
update. Kenny Kaminsky there of Alpha
Simplex on the different tone we're
seeing experiencing in both equities,
bonds, and commodities alike. This
morning, equity futures raising losses.
We're down by about 2/10 of 1%. Some
more clarity hopefully on the trade
front in the next few days.
Potentially, we can get more clarity at
noon. The president saying there's going
to be a number of letters sent out to
these trading partners setting new
rates. Basically, this was your rate
April 2nd. This is the new rate we
decided to readjust for. And people are
expecting that. What's going to be
interesting what happens with the m main
trading partners. Where are they on the
European Union? The EU thinks they're
going to get a framework before July
9th. That is a complete reversal than
what we were talking about just 2 3
weeks ago. When I was with the president
in the Netherlands, the European Union
was saying they were going to retaliate
against a 10% baseline like a snap. That
went out the window. So they clearly
want something done. And Japan and India
of course also going to be incredibly
important.
We explored this briefly with Kate
Kubitz about 30 minutes ago. She of
course was a trade negotiator under the
president's first term way back then and
she made the point that the deciding
factor that goes into whether it's a UK
outcome, a China outcome, a Vietnam
outcome, I don't think is well
understood at this point. What
determines what kind of outcome you
actually get?
I think it depends on what the president
is looking for with each trading
partner. Mike Pile talked about trans
shipping when it comes to China. That
was really important when it comes to
Vietnam. When it comes to the UK, I
think also part of it was timing. They
want both parties really wanted to get
to yes and they were willing to
sacrifice definitely on the UK side
something to get to yes because they've
been trying to get a trade deal with the
United States for years. Um when it
comes to China though, it's really
difficult where we are. It feels like
we're only taking the first step of a
very long road when it comes to some
sort of bigger agreement between the
United States and China.
Slow start this Monday morning.
expecting it to kick up kick off as the
week grows a little bit older to pick up
when we hear from the president in the
next several hours hopefully on which
letters he sent and to to whom and what
kind of tariff levels we could see in
the next several days. Let's give you an
update on news elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yhara.
Hey yara.
Hi John. We begin with the deadly
flooding in Texas. Rescuers there are
still searching for survivors after
catastrophic flash flooding over the
weekend. The disaster killed more than
80 people, including many children who
are attending youth camps. It's feared
the casualty count will climb with more
heavy rain forecast in the coming days.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration is
preparing to send tariff letters, as you
were just speaking about, to dozens of
countries, but the administration's
90day 90-day tariff pause set to expire
this Wednesday. Treasury Secretary
Bessant telling American media moments
ago that his mailbox is full of new
trade offers and we'll see several deals
announced in the next 48 hours. And
President Trump is planning to restrict
shipments of AI chips to Malaysia and
Thailand. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the move is part of an effort
to crack down on suspected semiconductor
smuggling into China. The regulation
would mark the first formal step in
President Trump's overhaul of former
President Biden's AI approach. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in about 15 minutes time. Up
next on the program, the Morning Calls.
Plus, Sheila Kolu of Jeffre looking
ahead to airline earnings over the next
several days or so. That conversation up
next, live from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The opening bound 1 hour and 16 minutes
away. Equity futures on the S&P 500
negative by just 2/10en of 1% down by a
third on the NASDAQ 100. on the Russell
this morning, softer by 0.3%.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. Kicking off first
with William Blair downgrading Tesla to
market perform citing headwinds from
President Trump's big beautiful bill.
That stock is down by 6%. Your second
one comes from Raymond James, double
downgrading Wells Fargo to market
perform saying the stock's favorable
fundamentals are already reflected in
its valuation. That stock is down by
7/10en of 1%. And finally, UBS lowering
its price target on Delta Airlines to
63, looking for an inline second quarter
earnings report. That stock is positive
by 0.25%.
Let's stick with Delta. Earnings due
before the opening bell on Thursday.
Sheila Colu of Jeffre keeping an eye on
travel demand this summer, writing, "We
observe that while passenger counts
remain below last year's level, the gap
has been narrowing." Sheila joins us now
for more. Sheila, good morning. Good to
see you.
Good morning. Thank you.
Let's cut back to February. February was
when the warning started and it started
from Delta Airlines warning about things
like Doge, consumer sentiment, air
aviation issues as well. What do trends
look like since the start of this year?
It's very hard to cherrypick these
airlines. I think they all have an
uphill climb to be honest. What we're
looking for is sequential improvement.
Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4. Q1, the exit rates in
March were down mid to high single digit
for domestic mainline cabin. That's
pricing. We're assuming some improvement
but still down about 3% in Q3 uh Q2 and
then some improvement as we exit the
year up. So we have an improvement
priced in but I think trends are stable
at best and we're seeing discounting in
mainline cabin in the US and Atlantic.
Are you seeing that at premium and
budget budget and premium
mostly in the budget in the mainline in
the back of the cabin um and Q2 is a big
quarter it represents about 45% of EPS
for airlines. So these trends being in
line to stable to March is is is not
uplifting.
Have you seen demand though continue
with when it comes to premium cabins and
business class?
Um it seems like it is for now, but
we're seeing trends pretty stable.
There's really no data source out there,
but we're not seeing improvement. Even
with TSA volumes at peak uh in June and
over the weekend, they're only up 1%
year-over-year. TSA volumes for travel
are flattish. So you're not seeing
consumer really improve. When it comes
to consumer concerns, how much is
tariffs lingering for the consumer as
well as for the airlines?
I think unfortunate for Delta, they're
going to report again on another tariff
day. Um, so I think that still lingers
and you're seeing corporate hold back a
little bit. So I think you'll see more
of the same, an improvement from the
March trends, but uh certainly not a big
improvement in Q2, which represents the
biggest quarter and exit rates for Q4
are already pricing in some positivity.
How difficult is for say Delta, they're
going to be reporting potentially on a
tariff day for them to talk about this
uncertainty when the goalposts seem to
be moving out of Washington?
Yeah, I think you know we've seen a big
move in airlines up 15 to 20% since
April. So they're already pricing in
this improvement. So hence we why we
prefer our commercial aero coverage
rather than our airline coverage because
I think you you still have some downside
risk to the airline names.
I think in the tax bill there was $12.5
billion set aside for the overhaul of
air aviation safety. talk to us about
that and can you calculate just how much
the consumer has held back because of
these aviation issues over the last
year.
There was some book away with uh the
incident in DC uh for American Airlines.
Similarly, Delta saw that too. So you
see, you know, pockets of holding back,
but um I I don't think it's I think it's
more of a macro concern that airlines
have and corporates have that are
holding them back.
Let's pick out Newark and let's pick out
United Airlines. I know a lot of people
and this is just sort of anecdotal
conversations that we've all had. We've
had the same conversation avoiding
Newark because they don't want to see
their plane canled because of aviation
traffic control.
Scott Kirby, I think over the weekend
tweeted or whatever it is on X said New
York was the best airport in June. And
it's true. They had the lowest
cancellation rate in the month of June.
Cancels for over the weekend were 4%,
delays were 25 because it was a rough
weekend for travel. Orlando, uh, Denver
were some of the worst air performing
airports. But good news is United seems
to be back at Newark and uh that
represents about 10% of their traffic.
Is that because of what Newark work's
been doing or United's been doing?
I think a little bit of both, but the
air traffic controller shortage still
exists. That's still a problem that we
have to improve over it'll take two to
three years. And that's where, you know,
some of the providers will help with
that.
And how much of what John's talking
about, the one big beautiful bill, some
of that funding, how much could that be
actually a boost to the airlines?
Um, a bit. it'll just help sort of
expedite uh systems. So folks that make
the systems are Rathon Technologies,
LIDOS, uh SIC is a company that trains
air traffic controllers. Um so those are
the big beautiful bill will really help
push those through, but it represents 2%
of sales for most of these companies. So
not a big needle mover.
That's the airlines. Let's talk about
the airplanes. Let's talk about Boeing.
Sure.
What position is Boeing in now?
In an decent position. You're seeing
deliveries. Uh we think June deliveries
could be at a rate of 42 a month on the
max. Uh we had projected 32. So you're
seeing 10 extra in June. You take that
rate forward for the next 6 months. It's
an extra 500 million to a billion
dollars of cash flow for Boeing. So
Boeing is steady as she goes. It looks
like things are okay and tariffs are
working in favor of them.
Speaking of tariffs, we've seen Nvidia
used as a chip in foreign policy. Excuse
the pun. Is Boeing in the same position
or at least a similar position?
That's been our thesis. uh what else
could you sell for 70 million to 200
million and sort of help reduce trade
deficits and use it as a bargaining
tool? We saw that with Vietnam a bit. Um
unfortunately the Paris air show was
light in order volume because of the Air
India incident which we still haven't
heard uh much about. Um so I think those
are yet to come.
China had a ban on its airlines
accepting Boeing planes and it lifted
it. So to John's point, do you expect
this lever just to continuously be
pulled, especially when Trump is in
office and he likes to dial up the
temperature before he dials it down?
Yeah, I think we think about global
production at 1,700 a year. Whether that
comes from Boeing or Airbus, you choose
the split, but uh countries could only
order from two com uh companies
essentially.
But does the political environment give
Airbus some help as opposed to Boeing?
Not really. uh their production is
really capped. Uh it's hard to go above
certain rates. So their production
capacity is going to be 75 a month on
their biggest narrow body, which is the
A320 versus 52 for Boeing on the 737.
Airbus is at in the 60s right now. So
their production rate is going to be
capped. So uh com uh airlines have to go
to Boeing at some point, which they are.
We're seeing that momentum pick up. We
just didn't see the order momentum and
the backlogs are 5 to seven years. So
you're pretty solid there.
Some better trends. Shayla, we
appreciate your time. It's good to see
you. Thank you, Shilakoli there of
Jeffre. The latest on the airlines and
on Boeing as well. Boeing increasingly a
chip in foreign policy and these trade
talks. Let's get you an update on that.
The Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
speaking just moments ago ahead of that
South imposed deadline this coming
Wednesday with the latest here.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall in Washington.
Morning Tyler.
Yeah, hey John. Well, importantly, the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson did also
say not when it comes to these trading
partners that we're expecting to get
these letters, but on China, he said
that he would meet his Chinese
counterpart in the next couple of weeks
and that perhaps they could be prepared
to move beyond issues of trade if
Beijing is willing to negotiate. That
would be a pretty substantial
development if true considering that we
know that the White House is still
raising concerns about allegations of
Beijing sloww walking the export of
those uh those export licenses when it
does come to critical uh minerals. Now,
when it comes to the deadline that's
approaching, he reiterated that we could
expect to see some deals in the next 48
hours. He did say that his inbox is full
of offers, but that's uh pretty
interesting since we do know that these
letters are designed to try to spur our
trading partners into putting their best
offer onto the table. The Treasury
Secretary has repeated that their uh
goal here is to apply maximum pressure
to try to get these countries to
essentially offer exactly what the
administration is trying to get out of
them. We're going to have to wait to see
how this develops. And then lastly, I'll
add that he clarified that the 20% rate
on Vietnam is an overall tariff rate.
doesn't stack on top of anything else,
but he did say sector specific tariffs
could be coming down the line.
So, something else to potentially worry
about and for the market to have some
uncertainty about. Tyler, when you're
talking about these letters and the
president's talking about them, are they
to set a new rate or is it to negotiate?
Are we back to square one? Are these
rules of the road? Are this all a
negotiating tactic?
Well, Amry, our analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that there's sort of three
different scenarios that we could see
here, and it depends where the country
falls, which bucket they fall into in
terms of our trading partners. Some
could be framework agreements like
Vietnam, for example, but as we just
heard from the Treasury Secretary, we're
still getting additional details about
what that looks like. The second would
be negotiating those countries that are
trying to make good faith effort, as the
administration would characterize them.
Then perhaps they could get a little bit
more leeway here uh to continue talks
down the road. But then the third would
be we are expecting some countries
actually the Treasury Secretary said it
could be upwards of a hundred trading
partners those smaller countries to
basically get that tariff rate freight
dictated to them. That's likely going to
be that 10% baseline tariff for those
countries that don't do a lot of trade
with the US. But it is interesting to
see the messaging here because the White
House really does want to show some sort
of forward progress and they're going to
sort of pitch these smaller deals as
exactly that as deals even though it
doesn't appear a lot of negotiating went
on
and he's saying he's going to be sitting
down with his Chinese counterpart in the
next few weeks. Where is the agreement
with China? Because they say they have
one yet we have not seen a single piece
of language when it comes to this
framework off of the Geneva and London
talks.
Right. I mean that's really what stuck
out to me about his comments was that
there appeared to be toward some sort of
path to continue the negotiations and
Amory you were there in London so you
know better than anyone that that
agreement in London was basically an
agreement to Geneva which we know was an
agreement to keep talking but it does
appear that one of the holdups has been
these export licenses when it does come
to critical minerals. It was interesting
to hear the Treasury Secretary say
essentially that they could move past
trade uh in these talks. We know that
they want to look at some of those
non-trade barriers like lacks IP
protection for example. So perhaps this
could evolve into a broader conversation
since we know it is going to take time
for a deal to be struck with Beijing.
The last time the Trump administration
made a deal, it took more than 18 months
to accomplish the phase one trade deal
and a lot of different things went into
it. Say agricultural purchases for
example and we know that the
administration has floated some sort of
catchup provision just to get back to
the levels that were agreed back then.
So this is definitely a moving and an
evolving process. But one thing is for
sure, the White House wants to show that
they are making progress here and that
countries are coming to the table as
they try to get some sort of agreement
uh put out there.
Tyler, thank you. Tyler Kendall down in
Washington. Thank you very much. Michael
Ziz of Morgan Stanley Publishing base
case for them kick the can.
Yep. This is self-imposed deadlines. So
I think you can also give the
administration a little bit of leeway
when it comes to kicking the can because
they decided these deadlines. But if you
don't have the deals in place, what else
are you supposed to do? And I struggle
to find that they have the deals all
ready to go cuz the second the president
has an inch an ounce of feeling that
he's going to have a deal, he goes
immediately to Truth Social with
excitement like he did at Vietnam.
Up next on our program, we'll count you
down to some of these trade deals. Plus,
we'll look at the economic data
following a much stronger than expected
headline payrolls report. We'll catch up
with Steven Stanley of Santandere. Plus,
Yahara with your morning movers. Tesla
falling as Elon Musk and his feud with
the president picks up
[Music]
the open about 60 minutes away. Equity
futures pulling back by 210 of 1% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ 100 down by third on
the Russell softer by 4/10en of 1% as we
count you down to the opening bell with
your morning movers. Here's Yahihara.
Hey yhara.
Hi John. We start with Tesla down 6% in
the pre-market after Elon Musk launched
his new political party. And the way Dan
Ies put it to us earlier is that this
move lower is on the prospect that this
could sharpen the divide between Musk
and Trump and it could lead to Trump
blocking Musk's autonomous driving plans
and also this idea that Musk is too
distracted by politics at a time when
Tesla needs his leadership. Next up, we
have Crowd Strike. Shares of the cyber
security firm are lower 1.3% after Piper
Sandler downgraded the stock to neutral.
But this is more of a price story than a
fundamental story because long-term they
believe in the stock. But analysts say
that Crowd Strike has already run past
their price target which is 505 and that
they see limited upside from here in the
short term. And we end with Walmart. It
is a slight move lower down about a
quarter of a percent, but I want to
highlight it as we countd down to
President Trump's July 9th tariff
deadline this Wednesday. The world's
largest retailer is of course one to
watch since it's very exposed to
tariffs. Like many other retailers, it
imports its products from toys to
electronics from places like China,
India, Mexico, and more. So, a lot of
questions as to where we end up with
deals with this country wi with these
countries. And of course, as you've been
asking, John, who shoulders the cost?
Yhara, appreciate it. It's a big
question. More from Yhara in just a
moment. Got to go back to the retailers.
If you think about how things evolved
over the last several months, you had
April 2nd and Liberation Day in the
weeks after that meeting that took place
on that Monday between the biggest
retailers in this country in the White
House talking to the president about
what could happen if those tariffs
stayed on was a pivotal meeting not just
for this economy, but for this market,
too.
Absolutely. both sides maybe trying to
explain what they were dealing with in
terms of supply chains. Who's going to
eat the tariff rates? What would that
would mean for consumers and consumption
when it comes to an administration that
really ran on this pledge of
affordability and to bring prices down?
Uh the retailers have retailers have
been center stage when it comes to the
tariff policy.
It could be a big week for trade. It's a
muted week for economic data following a
strong payroll report. Blue's Mike McKe
joins us now with more. Morning Mike.
Good morning John. Well, you, me, and an
Marie didn't get the message, uh, didn't
get the memo, but I'm calling this work
from beach week for people on Wall
Street because there isn't much going on
on the economic front. We get the
National Federation of Independent
Business, small business survey
tomorrow, and the New York Fed's survey
of consumer attitudes, which uh, the sub
category that everybody watches is
inflation expectations. Neither of those
likely to move markets, although we'll
watch for small business hiring plans.
On uh Wednesday, we get Fed minutes, but
that's three weeks ago uh in terms of
what they were thinking of and they
already told us how they thought it
would affect the economy in the summary
of economic projections. Thursday, we do
get claims and if there's any
significant movement there, that may be
the indicator of the week. Alberto Malum
and Mary Daly are speaking Thursday, but
uh what can they say? It's trade week.
Everybody's waiting for the letters and
then we have to try to figure out what
it all means for the economy. Next week
though, next week is what you're going
to want to pay attention to. CPI, PPI,
and retail sales. So, put on the
sunscreen uh for this week and then come
back to the office and sit at your desk
and watch Bloomberg at 8:30 Eastern
time. Uh the question that we can ask uh
going into this week is what happens at
the end of the week to uncertainty. the
uncertainty over trade index put out by
Baker Bloom and Watson's uh right now
very close to still record high levels.
It's come down a little bit as the
president's backed off on some of his
tariffs, but this just suggests that
people are not going to be spending
until they have a much better idea of
what tariffs are going to do to their
bottom lines. So, we'll watch for that
and see if there's any impact. But
still, not much market moving news on
the eco front this week.
Mike, it sounds like you're ready to
leave. Before you go, could you just
give us your assessment on payrolls last
Thursday? Headline looked decent. First
look, second, third, fourth look. There
was some push back from a lot of people.
Yeah. Uh, you know, the the thing that
people were have been watching is the
unemployment rate. And the unemployment
rate did come down, but largely because
we had a big drop in the uh size of the
labor force, almost all of which was
accounted for by foreignb born workers.
And if that's the beginning of a trend,
then uh the economy could see problems
ahead even if the unemployment doesn't
uh rate doesn't rise because uh the
denominator is smaller.
Mike McKe with the update. Mike, thank
you. Enjoy the journey. Does he take the
bus to the Hamptons? Get a car, drive
train.
The Jitney's right outside the office.
There you go. Get ready.
Most convenient.
Mike's got his bags ready. Steven
Stanley of Santandere. Luckily, he's not
on the beach. He's with us. He had the
lowest payroll forecast on the street.
He wrote the following. The June
employment report is on its face.
unambiguously strong. The deeper I
delved into the details though, the less
impressed I became. Steven joins us now
for more. Stephen, good morning.
Morning.
What didn't impress you?
Well, I mean, the bulk of the gain of
course came in the government sector.
And I think that's likely a one-off,
some seasonality around the end of the
school year. A lot of there a lot of
education jobs added, which probably
just means there were fewer layoffs at
the end of the school year than the
season was assumed. Um you look at the
household survey numbers the uh the
unemployment rate fell but it didn't
really fall for the right reasons. It
fell because the labor force shrank and
at the same time that the labor force
shrank there was a huge increase in what
the labor department calls people who
are marginally attached to labor force.
So these are people that want to work
are generally looking but for whatever
reason in June chose not to look. That
might be an immigration story or it
could be just random noise. But in
either case, um the fact that the
unemployment rate also doesn't really
tell us that the uh labor market's
getting that much better.
How well understood is the supply side
story?
Um I I think people are talking about
it. I think people understand that the
what we call the break even pace of
employment growth is probably a lot
lower today than it was a few years ago
when immigration was so strong. So that
I think that's the main issue is that
the labor market at the margin is
tighter than it would be otherwise. Of
course on the other side you've got
weakening in demand at the same time. So
it maybe helps to balance out a bit.
Cracks under the surface. Do you know
how many times I've heard that phrase
cracks under the surface? How long
before we see them at the surface?
Well, I I think what you're seeing right
now um is really in my view at least is
is temporary. It's businesses who are
holding off on whether it's capital
spending, hiring, whatever the case may
be, and waiting for policy related
certainty. We've now got the the fiscal
package through. So, that's one piece of
it. Now, we're hoping that the
administration is going to, you know,
tie a bow around tariffs at some point
over the next few months. And at that
point, I think businesses will be able
to move on. And I think at that point,
hiring may begin to pick up again. But
until we get there, I would expect that
you're going to see very soft uh job
growth.
You said next few months. How
disappointing is it for businesses that
it's not Wednesday as promised, July
9th.
Yeah. Um I mean, you know, obviously the
sooner the better. And I think if for
most businesses, I would imagine the
lower the tariffs the better. Um but at
the you know, at some point businesses
just want certainty, right? So the you
know I think the the hope in my view is
that we get this thing uh this this
whole issue resolved one way or the
other by the fall.
The Fed also wants certainty when it
comes to tariff rates so they can
understand policy and direction of
travel potentially of price adjustments.
Is the administration itself
you know shooting themselves in the
foot? They want Powell to cut rates but
Powell's basically saying I can't cut
rates until I know the tariff rates.
Well yeah I mean it's a it's a bit of a
of a of a puzzle. I think I think from
the Fed's perspective um you know one
thing that we've seen here is that the
the timing of the impact of tariffs on
the economy has been a little has come a
little later right we really haven't
seen much in the data certainly through
May um arguably you saw a little bit in
the in the jobs numbers um for June I
think you'll see some in the CPI next
week certainly retail sales have have
started to soften up a little bit um but
it feels like the bulk of the impact is
coming in the summer. The problem for
the Fed is that they can't really decide
what to do until they've seen the the
impact come through and then start to
dissipate again. Particularly on the
inflation side, I think what they were
expecting was that prices would shoot up
and then come back down. Well, we
haven't even seen them shoot up yet. So,
the Fed is definitely still in a waiting
game.
So, you're a September guy. Are you a
September guy with risk towards maybe
later cuts?
Yes. Yes. Because if the if the
inflation story drags out longer, I
think the Fed waits a little longer.
That's all and and the Fed's been very
explicit about that. That all hinges on
the economy hanging in there, right? Pal
has said we have the luxury of waiting
because because the labor market is
still solid, the economy is still solid.
Obviously, if the economy starts to fall
apart, that's a that's a totally
different story.
Do you think he does have that luxury?
I think he will. I think, you know,
again, I think the the underlying
fundamentals for the economy are pretty
good. I think what we're seeing right
now is just the the temporary impacts
that are coming through uh from the
tariffs. So, I think the economy will
muddle through uh and that will give
them some time. It it's not going to be
a comfortable period, right? Because I'm
sure the administration is going to
maintain the pressure. Um but, you know,
so far the the Fed seems perfectly
willing to wait.
Well, to that final point, the outlook
that you describe as you describe it,
I'm just envisioning this Federal
Reserve on a collision course with this
White House. How do you think that's
going to turn out in the next several
months? Are we going to have that shadow
Fed chair? And does that complicate
things for you looking out to 26?
Well, I think the selection of the next
Fed chair is definitely going to be a
pivotal moment for the markets. Right
now, we're, you know, we're all focused
on tariffs in the short run, but once
again, presuming that that gets resolved
over the next few months, it feels like
the next Fed chair is the is the next
big thing for the markets. And the
question in my mind is really does the
administration choose someone that the
markets view as independent and credible
or do they pick someone that is
perceived as just going to do the
president's bidding and that I think is
going to be if they if he does that I
think it will be a problem
if he does that. What's the market
reaction? Well, um, you know, we we've
already seen little signs of trouble in
the long end of the Treasury market, you
know, on the fiscal situation. If, uh,
if the markets are concerned that the
Fed is not going to, you know, is going
to do the job on inflation potentially,
that it feels like to me that that's a,
you know, that that's what you're going
to see. You're going to see higher
long-term yields, and it's probably not
good for risk in general either. I'm not
going to ask you for names, but what are
the defining characteristics of someone
who is credible and someone who isn't?
I think it's I think it's two. One is is
what you would always say, which is
qualifications, right? Someone that has
um you know, the economic chops, the the
policy experience perhaps. And then the
second one is going to be, you know, do
they have the appropriate distance from
the White House or are they viewed as as
a yes person?
Steven Stanley of Santandere. I think
we're all thinking about those names
right now. And who's who?
Definitely. So I think obviously it's
those that are on the inside like his
NEC director Kevin Hasset. He would be
someone that I think the market would
say this looks like a yes man to the
president of the United States over say
Governor Waller who's already at the
FOMC who has had a come out with his
thoughts for months even before his name
was floated potentially to be the next
Fed chair. Someone who is viewed as
credible by the market and also by his
colleagues. Governor Waller seemingly
the easy option at the moment at least.
It's good to see you Stephen. Thanks for
dropping by. Lots to think about. Equity
futures by the way still negative by
about a quarter of 1% as we work our way
through to the opening bound. Mike McKe
says you should all be at the beach.
This is going to be a quiet week. The
words of Mike McKe from just moments
ago. Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere. Back with us with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey
yara.
Hi John. We begin with the deadly
flooding in Texas. At least 80 people
have died and dozens more are still
missing following Friday morning's flash
floods. Water levels on the Guadalupe
River rose by 26 feet in just 45
minutes. Meanwhile, Camp Mystic and
Hunt, Texas confirmed this morning that
27 campers and counselors died in those
floods.
Meanwhile, President Trump says the US
will discuss a Tik Tok deal with China
either today or tomorrow. and he says
that they pretty much have a deal that
meanwhile the information also reported
that Tik Tok is building a new version
of its app for US users ahead of a plan
sale to a group of investors. The
company reportedly plans to launch it in
US app stores on September 5th. And as
we've been talking about all morning,
Elon Musk says he has formed a new
America party after President Trump
signed his tax cut and spending bill
into law that the former first buddy
repeatedly denounced. Musk made the
announcement in a post on X after 65% of
respondents to a poll on the platform
backed the idea. That's one way to make
decisions. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Up next on our
program, we set you up for the week
ahead. A quiet week ahead as we approach
a self-imposed tariff deadline of July
9th, a deadline that's already sliding.
Plus, we'll catch up with Kathy Judge or
Charles Swab as traders push out rate
cut bets. Live from New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The opening bell is about 43 minutes
away at the moment. Equity futures are
negative by about a third of 1% on the
S&P, 4/10 lower on the NASDAQ 100. As we
count you down to the opening bell, just
a sneak peek of this week's trading
diary. At noon today, President Trump
starting to send tariff letters. Looking
ahead to Wednesday, President Trump's
self-imposed tariff deadline and Fed
minutes are due. Thursday, Delta
Airlines earnings, plus another round of
jobless claims. As we count you down to
noon, 3 hours to go until those tariff
letters go out. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from the White
House with more. Morning, Tyler.
Yeah. Hey, John. As you said it, we're
in the 3-hour countdown to 12:00 p.m.
Eastern where President Trump says he's
going to start to send these letters
out. He said we could expect anywhere
from 12 to 15 countries to receive them.
And our understanding is the letters are
going out to go out today, but the
levies aren't going to be collected
until August 1st, perhaps suggesting
that there's some room for negotiating
here for those countries that, as the
administration says, puts their best
offer on the table. And I point you to
two quick developments that happened
this morning. One is that President
Trump threatened an additional 10%
tariff on any country that aligns with
bricks after their summit over the
weekend. And President Trump says they
put forward anti-American policies. So
that's one angle to watch here,
particularly when it comes to India. And
then the second, of course, as you well
know, is that we got confirmation this
morning that the European Union's Ursula
Vanderion held a phone call with
President Trump over the weekend. It
does appear to be a a reversal in favor
really for the EU, which had been at the
back of the negotiating line.
Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Outside the White House, more
from Tyler later on today, looking ahead
to that self-imposed tariff deadline.
Kathy Jun Charles Schwab has this to
say. The tariff bump in prices is still
on the horizon as the administration
settles on deals that will lift import
costs. We expect most of the increase to
get passed along to consumers. Kathy
joins us now for more. Kathy, welcome to
the program. Just want to pick up on
that last line. Why do you expect that
most of the increase will get passed
along to consumers?
Well, for larger companies, even though
there might be some room to um absorb
some of it in margins, there's a still
enough demand in the economy that they
could probably pass those along.
Traditionally, that is what importers
have done. They've passed along the u
any sort of excess costs from tariffs on
to consumers, and I would expect them to
do the same. And then if you're a small
or medium-sized business with a a
smaller margin, profit margin, you're
almost forced to do it even um you know,
even if it hurts your business because
you can't you can't do business
unprofitably for very long. So I I think
we should reasonably expect most of it
to get passed along.
Kathy, if you believe it could lead to
an increase in costs and prices, do you
also believe it could lead to a slowdown
in economic growth? And if that's the
case, how would you push those views
through this bond market? this morning.
Yeah, that's the the tough part. So many
of these policies have sort of opposing
forces. So on the one hand, yes, it
boosts prices at least one time if not
for longer term, but also slows growth,
right? Because some of the companies
that are paying these tariffs won't be
able to absorb the costs or their
consumers won't be able to uh pay the
cost and we'll get a drop in demand. So
um I think it has been the question all
year, you know, what comes first, the
tariff price increase or the slowdown in
growth. Our expectation is that the
further we stretch out the tariff issue,
the more likely it is that the growth
issue will come first. So we are
expecting slower growth in the third and
fourth quarters and a rate cut by the
Fed in September in response to um a
worsening job market.
But companies are always forwardlooking.
Why haven't they passed on the tariff
costs yet?
Well, some have. I mean, we've seen some
evidence that companies are already
taking advantage of the tariff news to
pass along uh higher prices. Um others
uh clearly want to wait and see what the
tariff cost is because we still don't
have a lot of certainty uh outside one
or two countries whether it's going to
be a 15% or a 20% or a 10% or 25%. you
know there what do you pass along and
you actually see it in the invoice. It's
hard to know what to pass along.
Well, we're going to see potentially
some rates today at noon or they're
going to be rates that are skyhigh that
remind you of liberation day to revamp
negotiations. The uncertainty looks like
it's going to continue when it comes to
trade at minimum until August 1st. How
difficult is that going to be for the
Fed to then potentially cut in
September?
Yeah, it could push back a rate cut from
where we've been anticipating September
for quite some time. It could push it
back until December or even into next
year. And you saw that in the
distribution of the projections at the
last Fed meeting where nine members saw
one or no rate cuts this year. Um, and
that's, you know, pretty much half the
committee right there. So, very much a
divided Fed. And I think some of those
who are not anticipating rate cuts this
year are looking at that as as a reason
to hold off. And you also have, you
know, a contributing factor to all this
is the weakness in the dollar, which
will also add to inflation pressures.
So, and maybe also limit what the Fed
wants to do in terms of easing rates.
So, it's a a really tough environment
right now to make a policy call.
So, Kathy, looking across the yield
curve right now, the difference between
twos and tens is about 50 basis points.
a tiny bit of steepness back into the
curve. Do you think the 10-year rate,
the yield at 436 accounts for some of
the risk that you've described so far
this morning? I I think it has some risk
premium built into it, but it certainly
could expand. So, you know, twos, tens
could move up another 30, 40 basis
points pretty easily, and we saw a
pretty good move uh at the long end when
we finally got the budget passed. And I
I think there is room for further
steepening of the curve. Whether that's
driven by, you know, rate cuts and a
bull steepening or a bare steepening. My
concern is it might be more of a bare
steepening um at this stage of the game.
Are you more comfortable in the front
end of the curve then Kathy?
Yeah, we've been, you know, kind of five
to seven years kind of trying to tread
water here between because you have
these opposing forces, right? So it's
really you don't want to be too short
because of the Fed duster cutting. Um
you you've already got the market
discounting a couple of cuts. You're not
getting as much yield there. Um but we
don't want to go too long yet until we
see actually see the economy slow down
and then I think we'd be comfortable
extending. So we're kind of in the 5 to
sevenyear area.
You're not alone Kathy. I've heard that
a million times over the past few weeks.
Kathy Jones there of swab. A lot of
people in fixed income. I think the
belly of the curve right now seems to be
the sweet spot. At the front end of the
curve, the very front end on a two-year
at the moment. We're down by about a
single basis point. The 2-year yield is
about 387. On 10 at the moment, yields
up by a single basis point about 436. As
we work our way through this week,
looking ahead to earnings with Delta
Airlines on deck later this week. Before
we get there, we got to talk about
trade. These letters go out in 3 hours
time. Who are those letters going to
and what are they exactly dictating? Is
it just a new tariff rate or potentially
is the president announcing a deal like
he did with Vietnam? And then you go
back and ask the Vietnamese what went on
and they said actually we we still are
in discussions to get some more concrete
proposals. The fact of the matter is we
don't know. What I do know is that the
president had deals. He would be
announcing them immediately, especially
some of these big trading partners. And
I think that's where the Treasury
Secretary said over the weekend they're
dragging their feet. Potentially the
president is trying to have a maximalist
approach once again at the final hurdle.
We heard that from Kate Lucitz,
individuals who worked for him. But we
just don't know yet what's going to be
announced, who they're going to, if
they're going to even release the
language because we're still waiting on
the the language when it comes to China.
You mentioned Japan. It's amazing to see
how Japan has fallen to the back of the
line when a few months ago a lot of
people might have said they're at the
very front of the line. All of a sudden,
they've replaced Europe just like that
because politics is local and they have
a domestic politics issue because they
have an election coming up. And you
heard the prime minister yesterday on
local television saying we're going to
quote stand firm, stay firm when it
comes to when it comes to these trade
negotiations. But it's getting at the
heart of really sensitive political
issues inside Japan. When it comes to
the auto sector, when it comes to things
like rice, this is what the Trump
administration is trying to get the
United States more of their exports into
Japan. And when you're up against
domestic politics, you're going to have
to say, "Okay, we can maybe do a trade
deal with you. We need to get over this
election cycle."
It's nice to have a quiet start to the
week. This week is going to heat up in a
few hours time potentially as the
president sends out those letters in 3
hours and 4 minutes time. Equity futures
at the moment pulling back by about a
third of 1% the up and bell about 34
minutes away. Coming up tomorrow we'll
be catching up with Ed Yardeni of
Yardeni Research, Kelsey Brow of JP
Morgan Asset Management, Arin Invest CEO
Kathy Wood and Amanda Linham of Black
Rockck. From New York City, I hope you
had a peaceful July 4th weekend. Thank
you very much for choosing Bloomberg TV.
This was Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]